# Chat log IRC Devel Meeting - 2014-05-14

## outstanding issues at this time, if any

\[2014-05-14 16:06:41\] \<miconda> apparently is a race for cleaning up
dialog which goes from initial state to terminated state  
\[2014-05-14 16:06:44\] \<miconda> reported recentrly  
\[2014-05-14 16:07:04\] \<miconda> i looked a bit, couldn’t reproduce,
but I expect is under high load  
\[2014-05-14 16:07:25\] \<miconda> as a lead now, could be due to
pre/post-script callbacks  
\[2014-05-14 16:07:25\] \<abalashov> I also brought up the topic of
CONFIRMED_NA dialogs getting stuck until dialog_timeout, but with no
response (that I saw).  
\[2014-05-14 16:08:06\] \<miconda> abalashov: yes, together with delayed
release of event route reported by osas  
\[2014-05-14 16:08:16\] \<miconda> will make a bit of work on dialog  
\[2014-05-14 16:08:41\] \<miconda> which might end up in getting rid of
dependency on tm … which is not that useful, imo  
\[2014-05-14 16:08:59\] \<miconda> dialog can handle the requests and
replies by itself  
\[2014-05-14 16:09:04\] \<miconda> i will see  
\[2014-05-14 16:09:15\] \<abalashov> Agree that knowledge of transaction
state is not really essential to dialog functionality; it's just
convenient.  
\[2014-05-14 16:09:35\] \<miconda> it is not exported to dialog api in
any way  
\[2014-05-14 16:09:45\] \<oej> Doesn't other modules that depend on
dialog depend on transaction state?  
\[2014-05-14 16:09:48\] \<oej> Like dialog  
\[2014-05-14 16:09:48\] \<miconda> just convenience in matching replies
some time  
\[2014-05-14 16:09:50\] \<abalashov> And can sometimes break things --
if dialog-altering sequential request comes through but in some way
improperly (say, no Route set) and TM doesn't trigger the right
callbacks / doesn't know about the transaction.  
\[2014-05-14 16:10:15\] \<miconda> oej: what do you mean with ‘Like
dialog’?  
\[2014-05-14 16:10:22\] \<oej>
<http://kamailio.org/docs/modules/devel/modules/pua_dialoginfo.html>  
\[2014-05-14 16:10:25\] \<oej> Depends on dialog  
\[2014-05-14 16:10:35\] \<miconda> ahh, ok, pua_dialoginfo  
\[2014-05-14 16:10:43\] \<oej> And dialoginfo shows transaction states
of the invite trans  
\[2014-05-14 16:10:46\] \<miconda> no, they don’t depend on transaction
state  
\[2014-05-14 16:10:56\] \<miconda> only on dialog states  
\[2014-05-14 16:10:59\] \<oej> according to the spec it does  
\[2014-05-14 16:11:18\] \<miconda> well, the states are initial,
ringing, confirmed  
\[2014-05-14 16:11:46\] \<osas> dialog relies on tm for getting back
replies  
\[2014-05-14 16:11:46\] \<miconda> which correspond to some of
transaction states, but in the code, dialog doesn’t propagate tm info  
\[2014-05-14 16:12:57\] \<osas> no, it doesn't  
\[2014-05-14 16:13:06\] \<abalashov> miconda, it seems I neglected to
see your reply on the CONFIRMED_NA topic ...
<http://lists.sip-router.org/pipermail/sr-dev/2014-April/023862.html> --
sorry for the misapprehension.  
\[2014-05-14 16:13:58\] \<abalashov> miconda: The proxy does get BYEs in
this scenario, but because the dialog is not yet confirmed+established
they do not result in tearing down the dialog.  
\[2014-05-14 16:14:11\] \<miconda> abalashov: ok  
\[2014-05-14 16:14:36\] \<abalashov> miconda: This generally happens due
to 200 OK-CANCEL race, but can also happen due to malformed ACKs and
whatnot.  
\[2014-05-14 16:14:41\] \<miconda> found another one recently, when the
dialog was not destroyed on timeout if bye failed to be sent  
\[2014-05-14 16:15:05\] \<miconda> to conclude, dialog needs a bit of
hammering :-)  
\[2014-05-14 16:15:07\] \<abalashov> Dialog is a very messy piece of the
proxy, it just happens to be very extremely useful in the applied
dimension.  
\[2014-05-14 16:16:30\] \<miconda> other issues?  
\[2014-05-14 16:17:30\] \<abalashov> miconda: I hear you on setting the
dialog timeout to one timer prior to ACK and another after, but maybe
there should be a separate timeout setting for unconfirmed dialogs? Or
is that asking too much?  
\[2014-05-14 16:17:40\] \<abalashov> miconda: It's an extremely common
problem in high-pace environments due to 200 OK/CANCEL race.  
\[2014-05-14 16:18:17\] \<miconda> abalashov: separate timeout can be
added indeed  
\[2014-05-14 16:18:26\] \<abalashov> miconda: I'd be willing to work on
that.  
\[2014-05-14 16:18:36\] \<abalashov> miconda: Problem is it's so
difficult to simulate a 200 OK/CANCEL race deliberately.  
\[2014-05-14 16:19:07\] \<abalashov> miconda: I might take the approach
of sending some bullshit ACK instead. Maybe with the wrong From tag.
That reliably works, I know from unfortunate personal experience with
the VOS3000.  
\[2014-05-14 16:19:20\] \<miconda> abalashov: we will give you a free
license for devel purposes  
\[2014-05-14 16:19:21\] \<abalashov> (or rather, wrong To tag,
actually)  
\[2014-05-14 16:19:22\] \<miconda> :-)  
\[2014-05-14 16:20:13\] \<linuxmaniac> sorry for asking but what is the
difference between dialog and dialog_ng?  
\[2014-05-14 16:20:26\] \<abalashov> That's a good question. I am
unclear on this as well.  
\[2014-05-14 16:20:51\] \<miconda> dialog_ng - dialog = \_ng  
\[2014-05-14 16:20:59\] \<abalashov> Hah!  
\[2014-05-14 16:21:09\] \<miconda> \_ng version is an attempt to rework
dialog  
\[2014-05-14 16:21:11\] \<abalashov> linuxmaniac: In theory it is
supposed to be a next generation dialog module that deals better with
spirals and forking.  
\[2014-05-14 16:21:19\] \<abalashov> linuxmaniac: In practice I am
unsure as to what the practical difference is at this point.  
\[2014-05-14 16:21:21\] \<miconda> it was a discussion some time ago  
\[2014-05-14 16:21:41\] \<miconda> but apparently dialog_ng doesn’t have
all features of dialog  
\[2014-05-14 16:21:50\] \<abalashov> Right, so in practice I don't see
it being so usable.  
\[2014-05-14 16:21:59\] \<miconda> there is a wiki page about the
discusion on dialog_ng  
\[2014-05-14 16:22:08\] \<linuxmaniac> but, is anyone working on it?  
\[2014-05-14 16:22:19\] \<carstenbock> We are making heavy use of
dialog_ng for IMS topics.  
\[2014-05-14 16:22:22\] \<miconda> and, if i got it right, is mostly ims
oriented now  
\[2014-05-14 16:22:26\] \<miconda> the ims devs  
\[2014-05-14 16:22:32\] \<carstenbock> Here we are!  
\[2014-05-14 16:22:55\] \<linuxmaniac> any plans to get all the features
of dialog?  
\[2014-05-14 16:23:01\] \<abalashov> Nevertheless, this is likely to be
confusing to the general public and newbies and so on.  
\[2014-05-14 16:23:01\] \<caruizdiaz> by Jason Penton: "Dialog2 is a
start at the following:
<http://www.kamailio.org/dokuwiki/doku.php/modules-new-design:dialog-module-design>
We needed this functionality for the IMS modules. In IMS a proxy can
take the same session in both terminating and originating modes (ie 2
dialogs for the same session). dialog 1 does not support this. Dialog2
has been tested to at least support the functionality we required and we
will build  
\[2014-05-14 16:23:03\] \<miconda> so carstenbock can say the diff
between dialog and dialog_ng  
\[2014-05-14 16:23:13\] \<caruizdiaz> dialog2 was the original name of
dialog_ng  
\[2014-05-14 16:23:45\] \<abalashov> My personal reading when I first
ran into it was, "Oh, it's \_ng, that sounds like some avant garde
stuff, I don't think I'll use it." But in the case of rtpproxy_ng this
would be incorrect thinking. :-)  
\[2014-05-14 16:23:59\] \<linuxmaniac> :-)  
\[2014-05-14 16:24:17\] \<qxork> avant garde  
\[2014-05-14 16:24:18\] \<linuxmaniac> now we don't have any \_ng  
\[2014-05-14 16:24:25\] \<abalashov> Yeah, I know.  
\[2014-05-14 16:24:34\] \<abalashov> rtpengine_ng - specially for IMS
:-)  
\[2014-05-14 16:24:45\] \<carstenbock> At the moment the development on
the dialog_ng module is on "per demand" basis.  
\[2014-05-14 16:24:58\] \<caruizdiaz> AFAIR, the only missing thing in
dialog_ng, is the full database support  
\[2014-05-14 16:25:15\] \<linuxmaniac> so there is no intension to
replace dialog with dialog_ng in the long term  
\[2014-05-14 16:25:30\] \<abalashov> ... contrary to the triumphant
announcement in the dialog_ng documentation ...  
\[2014-05-14 16:26:26\] \<linuxmaniac> I'm just asking because it seems
dialog need some work  
\[2014-05-14 16:26:30\] \<caruizdiaz> maybe in a future. Currently I
believe it would be impractical to do that.  
\[2014-05-14 16:26:58\] \<linuxmaniac> OK, moving on  
\[2014-05-14 16:27:33\] \<abalashov> caruizdiaz: I think the dialog_ng
module should perhaps be amended to take a more moderate stance, then.
As it is written now, it states, "El nuevo dialog! Viva la
revolucion!"  
\[2014-05-14 16:27:42\] \<abalashov> caruizdiaz: + documentation  
\[2014-05-14 16:28:03\] \<oej> +7  
\[2014-05-14 16:28:48\] \<carstenbock> Maybe an option would be, to
rename dialog_ng to dialog_ims, to reduce the confusion.  
\[2014-05-14 16:29:09\] \<carstenbock> (at least as long as it's mostly
used for IMS)  
\[2014-05-14 16:29:09\] \<caruizdiaz> abalashov: jajajaj, maybe yes, but
I don't think it is affecting the new comers. I did not read any inquiry
or doubt about which of them to use.  
\[2014-05-14 16:29:26\] \<carstenbock> True...  
\[2014-05-14 16:29:31\] \<miconda> ok, so are we done?  
\[2014-05-14 16:29:34\] \<oej> We had it in a release so it's late for
rename  
\[2014-05-14 16:29:43\] \<miconda> with dlg vs dlg_ng …  
\[2014-05-14 16:29:46\] \<oej> But improving the docs is a good thing to
avoid any confusion  
\[2014-05-14 16:29:52\] \<carstenbock> Okay, agreed.  
\[2014-05-14 16:30:11\] \<linuxmaniac> done  
\[2014-05-14 16:30:12\] \<oej> Assigned to carstenbock aka "The IMS
Guy"  
\[2014-05-14 16:30:23\] \<carstenbock> Damn!  
\[2014-05-14 16:30:24\] \<carstenbock> :-)  
\[2014-05-14 16:30:26\] \<caruizdiaz> :D:D  
\[2014-05-14 16:30:42\] \<javar> :)  

## major release

\[2014-05-14 16:31:04\] \<miconda> most probably autumn time frame  
\[2014-05-14 16:31:55\] \<miconda> it fits the development cycle
interval and I guess summer is not the ideal for testing a frozen
branch  
\[2014-05-14 16:32:26\] \<miconda> perhaps we can decide the date to
freeze development at the end of summer, via mailing list  
\[2014-05-14 16:32:39\] \<oej> +1  
\[2014-05-14 16:32:44\] \<oej> What's new?  
\[2014-05-14 16:32:51\] \<oej> Event stuff  
\[2014-05-14 16:32:52\] \<miconda> i think there are like 3 new modules
now  
\[2014-05-14 16:32:53\] \<abalashov> Will it be Kamailio 5.0? :) Or is
it time for it to become Kamailio Vista?  
\[2014-05-14 16:33:11\] \<miconda> plus quite a lot in other old
modules  
\[2014-05-14 16:33:12\] \<caruizdiaz> :D  
\[2014-05-14 16:33:20\] \<oej> Kamailio 95  
\[2014-05-14 16:33:27\] \<oej> Inspired by SAAB 95  
\[2014-05-14 16:33:29\] \<miconda> afaik, there are 3-4 modules to be
added soon …  
\[2014-05-14 16:33:30\] \<oej> (of course)  
\[2014-05-14 16:33:33\] \<oej> What's that?  
\[2014-05-14 16:33:36\] \<qxork> Kamailio_NG  
\[2014-05-14 16:34:00\] \<miconda> two erlang modules are on github in a
different repo  
\[2014-05-14 16:34:08\] \<abalashov> Actually, I assume it will be
Kamailio 4.2. Right?  
\[2014-05-14 16:34:19\] \<miconda> i discussed with the developer, he
wants more polishing before incorporating them  
\[2014-05-14 16:34:32\] \<oej> Erlang? Cool.  
\[2014-05-14 16:34:45\] \<caruizdiaz> do you have the links?  
\[2014-05-14 16:35:04\] \<miconda> one module by kazoo guys to be
reviewed and adjusted to be more generic if it is the case (on github as
well)  
\[2014-05-14 16:35:25\] \<miconda> caruizdiaz: searching on github
should reveal them  
\[2014-05-14 16:35:28\] \<linuxmaniac> No Go yet?  
\[2014-05-14 16:35:38\] \<caruizdiaz> ok, tks  
\[2014-05-14 16:35:56\] \<abalashov> linuxmaniac: No indeed, and neither
Haskell.  
\[2014-05-14 16:36:12\] \<miconda> the developer of json modules said at
some point in time that they refactored, but i haven’t seen any updates
yet  
\[2014-05-14 16:36:40\] \<abalashov> miconda: Has there been any
movement on the topic of how exactly the evapi should work?  
\[2014-05-14 16:36:57\] \<miconda> abalashov: “at your will”  
\[2014-05-14 16:37:03\] \<miconda> no format enforced now  
\[2014-05-14 16:37:12\] \<abalashov> What about subscriptions and
filtering?  
\[2014-05-14 16:38:25\] \<miconda> nothing yet — looks like a busy
summer for you :-)  
\[2014-05-14 16:38:34\] \<abalashov> :-)  
\[2014-05-14 16:38:53\] \<abalashov> Previously I had done all this with
uac_req_send().  
\[2014-05-14 16:38:57\] \<abalashov> This offers a novel approach.  
\[2014-05-14 16:39:29\] \<miconda> to conclude, I’m sure there will be
plenty of new modules by the time of the next major release  
\[2014-05-14 16:39:38\] \<oej> Cool  
\[2014-05-14 16:40:01\] \<miconda> those are what I am aware at this
time to be on pipeline  
\[2014-05-14 16:40:16\] \<abalashov> Are there are any defunct and
unmaintained modules that should be deprecated?  
\[2014-05-14 16:40:39\] \<abalashov> I have my eye on 'seas', not sure
what it's status is.  
\[2014-05-14 16:40:41\] \<miconda> and maybe 1-2 more from me … let’s
see how the time goes  
\[2014-05-14 16:40:44\] \<abalashov> \*its  
\[2014-05-14 16:40:54\] \<miconda> seas should work ok  
\[2014-05-14 16:41:07\] \<stangrze> hi  
\[2014-05-14 16:41:08\] \<miconda> iirc, some stuff related to tcp was
missing there  
\[2014-05-14 16:41:19\] \<miconda> but for udp, should be no problems  
\[2014-05-14 16:41:58\] \<abalashov> I get lots of questions about
fleshing out the Kamailio SNMP MIB with something more useful, since
bellheads love SNMP.  
\[2014-05-14 16:42:08\] \<miconda> and, being asked up here, it’s going
to be 4.2.0  
\[2014-05-14 16:42:13\] \<abalashov> I always just tell them to wrap
custom OIDs with kamctl queries.  
\[2014-05-14 16:42:38\] \<miconda> 5.0 when we deprecate ipv4 and we
support ipv6 and ipv9  
\[2014-05-14 16:42:48\] \<abalashov> aka Kamailio Vista  
\[2014-05-14 16:43:07\] \<stangrze> erlang module is at
github.com/stangrze/sip-router-erlang-module  
\[2014-05-14 16:43:45\] \<miconda> abalashov: should not be hard to add
to snmpstats, oej did latel several of them  
\[2014-05-14 16:43:59\] \<miconda> stangrze: hello! thanks for the link
to erlang module  
\[2014-05-14 16:44:00\] \<stangrze> its quite usable now, would
appreciate is someone dares to test it wit dome complex config  
\[2014-05-14 16:44:01\] \<caruizdiaz> topic suggestion:
modifying/enhancing the db api to support nosql databases  
\[2014-05-14 16:44:22\] \<miconda> stangrze: i was just going to ask
abotu the state  
\[2014-05-14 16:44:25\] \<stangrze> ...some..  
\[2014-05-14 16:44:49\] \<miconda> stangrze: going to see if I can hunt
some erlang fans  
\[2014-05-14 16:45:21\] \<miconda> stangrze: perhaps testing will come
easier for everyone when the module gets into main repo  
\[2014-05-14 16:45:42\] \<stangrze> database interface for srdb1 is
quite complete, you can use boss_db app to connect to mysql database,
and it should doo all stuff  
\[2014-05-14 16:46:26\] \<miconda> ok, let’s conclude with major
release: autumn, decision on date by end of summer  
\[2014-05-14 16:47:14\] \<stangrze> i got busy with broadcom's
as-feature-event stuff i need for my work, than i'll get back to
erlang  
\[2014-05-14 16:47:39\] \<abalashov> stangrze: You mean Broadsoft? :)  
\[2014-05-14 16:47:53\] \<stangrze> broadsoft, sory ;-)  

## minor release

\[2014-05-14 16:49:00\] \<miconda> planning one by end of may, early
june  
\[2014-05-14 16:49:13\] \<miconda> before starting the holidays season  
\[2014-05-14 16:50:00\] \<miconda> most probably for both latest stable
branches this time — 4.0 and 4.1  
\[2014-05-14 16:50:18\] \<miconda> so this was short — I gues …  
\[2014-05-14 16:50:27\] \<miconda> we get back to proposed topics
later  
\[2014-05-14 16:50:36\] \<linuxmaniac> jessie will freeze at 6th of
November 2014  
\[2014-05-14 16:50:51\] \<miconda> just to finish what we have on wiki  
\[2014-05-14 16:51:07\] \<miconda> linuxmaniac: so we have to do a major
release before to get it in, right?  
\[2014-05-14 16:51:14\] \<linuxmaniac> yes  
\[2014-05-14 16:51:16\] \<oej> I will freeze in october already...  
\[2014-05-14 16:51:19\] \<miconda> ok  
\[2014-05-14 16:51:24\] \<miconda> :-)  
\[2014-05-14 16:51:36\] \<eZz> hello  
\[2014-05-14 16:51:41\] \<linuxmaniac> and afer that long maintain
work  
\[2014-05-14 16:51:45\] \<caruizdiaz> xD  
\[2014-05-14 16:52:01\] \<miconda> next topic: old or forgotten
patches  
\[2014-05-14 16:52:05\] \<linuxmaniac> just security patches for stable
release  
\[2014-05-14 16:52:28\] \<linuxmaniac> multipart bodies!!! :-(  
\[2014-05-14 16:52:32\] \<linuxmaniac> jaja  
\[2014-05-14 16:52:43\] \<abalashov> My patch that deprecates IPv4 and
non-TLS connections was forgotten. But it's probably best left
forgotten.  
\[2014-05-14 16:53:02\] \<miconda> linuxmaniac: should be done soon  
\[2014-05-14 16:53:15\] \<miconda> the one for textops is more scarry  
\[2014-05-14 16:53:34\] \<miconda> but will be finished soon  
\[2014-05-14 16:53:34\] \<linuxmaniac> yes, and now I'm working on
dialplan  
\[2014-05-14 16:53:57\] \<linuxmaniac> this will be even scarier  
\[2014-05-14 16:53:57\] \<miconda> the one for websockets, Peter
responded on mailing list, as he cannot attend here  
\[2014-05-14 16:54:48\] \<miconda> my plan for the one on websockets (to
get rid of libunistring) is to have defines to select one or another …  
\[2014-05-14 16:55:07\] \<miconda> in some OSes is hard to get
libunistring  
\[2014-05-14 16:55:20\] \<miconda> eZz: hello!  

## mirrors

\[2014-05-14 16:55:57\] \<caruizdiaz> +1 to get rid of libunistring  
\[2014-05-14 16:56:33\] \<linuxmaniac> I have to say that the Makefiles
can be improved, I had recently a report because kamailio couldn't build
without pkg-config  
\[2014-05-14 16:56:33\] \<miconda> we may get some US-located server  
\[2014-05-14 16:56:35\] \<oej> What's the alternative to libunistring  
\[2014-05-14 16:56:51\] \<oej> (sorry, missed "next topic" . MOve on!)  
\[2014-05-14 16:56:54\] \<miconda> oej: embedded version  
\[2014-05-14 16:57:04\] \<miconda> oej: no problem …  
\[2014-05-14 16:57:32\] \<miconda> oej: there was a patch to replace the
function used from libunistring with one to be inside the module  
\[2014-05-14 16:57:39\] \<oej> ok  
\[2014-05-14 16:57:48\] \<miconda> because it is about conversion from
utf8 to ascii, or so ...  
\[2014-05-14 16:57:56\] \<oej> Unicode is not easy, so we need to make
sure it works properly  
\[2014-05-14 16:58:18\] \<miconda> don’t remember by heart now exactly  
\[2014-05-14 16:58:37\] \<miconda> but yes, we will keep both options by
compile time to be able to switch in case of problems  
\[2014-05-14 16:58:58\] \<oej> Ok, back to "Mirrors"  
\[2014-05-14 16:59:05\] \<miconda> anything else for old patches?  
\[2014-05-14 16:59:15\] \<miconda> ok then, back to mirrors  
\[2014-05-14 16:59:23\] \<miconda> as said, we may get some US-located
server  
\[2014-05-14 16:59:36\] \<miconda> thanks to qxork  
\[2014-05-14 16:59:45\] \<oej> Thanks Qxork  
\[2014-05-14 16:59:51\] \<abalashov> Thanks qxork !  
\[2014-05-14 17:00:00\] \<miconda> and I thought of mirroring the debian
apt repos  
\[2014-05-14 17:00:01\] \<oej> MIrror of what btw?  
\[2014-05-14 17:00:25\] \<eZz> please tell me when will be a free talk,
I did not declared any topics  
\[2014-05-14 17:00:27\] \<miconda> and build a rpm repo  
\[2014-05-14 17:00:55\] \<miconda> oej: so we get a server (virtual)  
\[2014-05-14 17:01:00\] \<miconda> and we can use it  
\[2014-05-14 17:01:23\] \<miconda> we are ok with apt repos  
\[2014-05-14 17:01:31\] \<miconda> but rpms are on open suse build
servers  
\[2014-05-14 17:01:49\] \<miconda> and doesn’t appear to be easy to get
via some package manager  
\[2014-05-14 17:01:55\] \<linuxmaniac> mika: there is an easy way to
build rpm too in jenkins?  
\[2014-05-14 17:02:17\] \<mika> linuxmaniac: nope, i've a buddy working
on it, but it needs work  
\[2014-05-14 17:02:25\] \<linuxmaniac> Ok  
\[2014-05-14 17:02:32\] \<miconda> not being a rpm-base distro user, I
just thought of cloning the rpms and building a repository out of them  
\[2014-05-14 17:03:10\] \<mika> clean rpm builds similar to what we do
with debs would be nice though :) what distris do you have in mind?  
\[2014-05-14 17:03:15\] \<miconda> then eventually set a mirror for apt
repos as well, although I understood from sipwise guys that the current
one is on amazon, so it is distributed already  
\[2014-05-14 17:03:50\] \<linuxmaniac> miconda: been in amazon doesn't
mean distributed  
\[2014-05-14 17:03:50\] \<miconda> mika: now we (I) do for centos,
redhat, opensuse and fedora  
\[2014-05-14 17:04:03\] \<miconda> various versions  
\[2014-05-14 17:04:14\] \<miconda> supported by opensuse build service  
\[2014-05-14 17:04:28\] \<miconda> linuxmaniac: ok, right, wanted to say
more reliable :-)  
\[2014-05-14 17:04:30\] \<mika> miconda: alright  
\[2014-05-14 17:04:59\] \<oej> Gotta leave the office, or they will lock
me in. Have a good meeting!  
\[2014-05-14 17:05:20\] \<caruizdiaz> glad that rpm based distros are
taken into account :)  
\[2014-05-14 17:05:38\] \<caruizdiaz> bye oej :)  
\[2014-05-14 17:05:40\] \<eZz> have a great evening, oej!  
\[2014-05-14 17:06:04\] \<miconda> for reference:
<https://build.opensuse.org/project/show/home:kamailio:telephony>  
\[2014-05-14 17:06:49\] \<miconda> so my question would have been:
anyone here knowing to set a yum/whatsoever repository?  
\[2014-05-14 17:06:52\] \<caruizdiaz> thanks  
\[2014-05-14 17:07:24\] \<miconda> caruizdiaz: so you wanted to say that
you can take care of?!?  
\[2014-05-14 17:07:56\] \<caruizdiaz> jajaja, I could, but it will take
me some time to get used to the rpm build system.  
\[2014-05-14 17:08:02\] \<caruizdiaz> can you wait? ;)  
\[2014-05-14 17:08:19\] \<eZz> some years ago I was a maintainer of
Slackware packages mirror and did it automaticaly  
\[2014-05-14 17:08:28\] \<miconda> build service is done, that’s easy  
\[2014-05-14 17:08:56\] \<mika> IIRC createrepo should even work on
Debian to provide a yum mirror  
\[2014-05-14 17:08:59\] \<caruizdiaz> then it would be repo
configuration only  
\[2014-05-14 17:09:00\] \<miconda> needed: a script to download the rpms
and build a yum/etc repo  
\[2014-05-14 17:09:42\] \<miconda> ok … let’s get back on this when we
have the server  
\[2014-05-14 17:09:54\] \<miconda> will discuss on mailing list  
\[2014-05-14 17:10:01\] \<eZz> btw, checkinstall can create
rpm/debian/slack/etc else packages  
\[2014-05-14 17:10:31\] \<caruizdiaz> I think peter had done some work
on this topic for his centos servers. I will catch up with his work and
see how I can help  
\[2014-05-14 17:10:43\] \<miconda> ok  

## world wide events

\[2014-05-14 17:10:53\] \<miconda> next topic: world wide events …  
\[2014-05-14 17:11:36\] \<miconda> if anyone here is participating to an
event and approaches something touching kamailio, we can put news, etc…
on site  
\[2014-05-14 17:11:46\] \<carstenbock> I'll add to the docs in the Wiki,
how to use the SUSE services as a yum-repo...  
\[2014-05-14 17:12:17\] \<eZz> I'm working on 2 new modules according to
security  
\[2014-05-14 17:12:23\] \<miconda> or if you know an event that should
be attended, send and email and we will see if anyone can attend  
\[2014-05-14 17:12:43\] \<miconda> eZz: great, wait a bit and we will
get on that topic  
\[2014-05-14 17:12:55\] \<eZz> miconda: ok  
\[2014-05-14 17:13:40\] \<miconda> to conclude on events — Cluecon and
Astricon will be on our radar  
\[2014-05-14 17:14:04\] \<caruizdiaz> what about TADHack?  
\[2014-05-14 17:14:09\] \<miconda> but also smaller events are good,
those kind of meetups  
\[2014-05-14 17:14:24\] \<miconda> caruizdiaz: looks interesting,
overlaps with vacation  
\[2014-05-14 17:14:38\] \<miconda> but would be good if anyone can
participate on site or remote  
\[2014-05-14 17:14:43\] \<caruizdiaz> it's not vacation in here :D  
\[2014-05-14 17:15:05\] \<miconda> here we done one every 10 years, so
…  
\[2014-05-14 17:15:05\] \<caruizdiaz> I think I will. I will let you
know if so.  
\[2014-05-14 17:15:06\] \<miconda> :-)  
\[2014-05-14 17:15:11\] \<miconda> ok  
\[2014-05-14 17:15:17\] \<qxork> have to run!  
\[2014-05-14 17:15:32\] \<miconda> next topic: ipv6, security  
\[2014-05-14 17:15:43\] \<miconda> oej is gone, so it should be short
:-)  
\[2014-05-14 17:15:53\] \<caruizdiaz> xD  
\[2014-05-14 17:16:02\] \<miconda> any experiences with IPv6, any
issues?  
\[2014-05-14 17:16:16\] \<miconda> not much production from my
interactions …  
\[2014-05-14 17:17:06\] \<miconda> anyhow, for new modules dealing with
ip addresses, ipv6 should be considered from early phase  
\[2014-05-14 17:17:24\] \<miconda> some providers in germany started to
shift to ipv6  
\[2014-05-14 17:17:50\] \<linuxmaniac> miconda: we have some clients
with ipv6  
\[2014-05-14 17:18:03\] \<miconda> to conclude: I am not aware of any
issue, just wanted to get a round of others’ opinions  
\[2014-05-14 17:18:23\] \<miconda> linuxmaniac: ok, so it’s working …  
\[2014-05-14 17:18:37\] \<linuxmaniac> I not aware of any issue  
\[2014-05-14 17:18:41\] \<miconda> do you have any figures (estimations)
of subscribers on ipv6  
\[2014-05-14 17:18:49\] \<miconda> like order of magnitude  
\[2014-05-14 17:18:57\] \<linuxmaniac> not me, but maybe Daniel or
Andrew  
\[2014-05-14 17:18:59\] \<miconda> 1000+, 10 000+ …  
\[2014-05-14 17:19:05\] \<miconda> ok  

## security

\[2014-05-14 17:19:34\] \<carstenbock> We wanted to put IPv6 in a
customer network, but then we noticed that basically all fibre-modems
and ISDN boxes in that network did not support IPv6 and it's not on the
roadmap of the manufacturers :-(  
\[2014-05-14 17:19:57\] \<miconda> there is the issue of tls-only listen
…  
\[2014-05-14 17:20:06\] \<miconda> that should be fixed soon  
\[2014-05-14 17:20:52\] \<miconda> before the next major release I will
review to see if anything else needs to be addresses in tls module  
\[2014-05-14 17:21:05\] \<miconda> now we support up to tlsv1.2, iirc  
\[2014-05-14 17:21:16\] \<miconda> tls1.3 is out? anyone knows....  
\[2014-05-14 17:21:44\] \<miconda> eZz: as we are on security, you said
something about two new modules  
\[2014-05-14 17:21:48\] \<miconda> can you give more details?  
\[2014-05-14 17:22:56\] \<miconda> eZz: are you around? otherwise we
came back later to them  
\[2014-05-14 17:23:12\] \<miconda> anything else we should do from
security point of view?  
\[2014-05-14 17:23:38\] \<miconda> it was a proposal with an alerts
mailing list?!? or I am mixing it with something else...  
\[2014-05-14 17:24:53\] \<linuxmaniac> miconda: it will be great for the
future jessie maintenance a way to know security related problems  
\[2014-05-14 17:25:37\] \<miconda> linuxmaniac: ok  
\[2014-05-14 17:25:50\] \<miconda> perhaps we can discuss it on mailing
list to get the others involved  
\[2014-05-14 17:25:56\] \<linuxmaniac> +1  

## continuous integration

\[2014-05-14 17:26:14\] \<linuxmaniac> \\o/  
\[2014-05-14 17:26:19\] \<miconda> and now it’s linuxmaniac on stage  
\[2014-05-14 17:26:28\] \<linuxmaniac> mika... come to rescue me!  
\[2014-05-14 17:26:57\] \<linuxmaniac> It will be great to start a
discussion about it  
\[2014-05-14 17:27:06\] \<mika> linuxmaniac: :)  
\[2014-05-14 17:27:22\] \<linuxmaniac> what are our plans, wishes and
manpower  
\[2014-05-14 17:27:52\] \<linuxmaniac> from my part  
\[2014-05-14 17:28:21\] \<linuxmaniac> I've created the initial jobs for
static analysis using cppcheck at jenkins  
\[2014-05-14 17:28:42\] \<miconda> linuxmaniac: cppcheck on jenkins
shows 0  
\[2014-05-14 17:28:46\] \<miconda> when i checked  
\[2014-05-14 17:28:46\] \<mmike\_\> Hello to all. Don't know if anyone
can hel me.  
\[2014-05-14 17:28:59\] \<linuxmaniac> miconda: the are two kinds of
jobs  
\[2014-05-14 17:29:00\] \<miconda> was it run?  
\[2014-05-14 17:29:26\] \<mmike\_\> we use Kamailio in our voip network
and now we're facing an interoperability problem with a voip provider.  
\[2014-05-14 17:29:32\] \<linuxmaniac> cppcheck-full is a complete run
of everything  
\[2014-05-14 17:29:51\] \<mmike\_\> it requires support to PRACK while
out voip switch doesn't support it.  
\[2014-05-14 17:29:53\] \<linuxmaniac> but cppcheck is just a check for
the files changed in last commit  
\[2014-05-14 17:30:14\] \<linuxmaniac> s/last commit/from the last
commit checked/  
\[2014-05-14 17:30:24\] \<miconda> linuxmaniac: ok  
\[2014-05-14 17:30:38\] \<linuxmaniac> the full check is quite heavy  
\[2014-05-14 17:30:44\] \<mmike\_\> Would it be possible to configure
kamailio to generate the PRACK requests and OK to PRACKs?  
\[2014-05-14 17:30:46\] \<linuxmaniac> like more than 8 hours  
\[2014-05-14 17:30:46\] \<miconda> so are there thing reported on all
source?  
\[2014-05-14 17:31:02\] \<miconda> s/thing/things/  
\[2014-05-14 17:31:18\] \<linuxmaniac>
<https://kamailio.sipwise.com/view/cppcheck/job/kamailio40-cppcheck-full/1/cppcheckResult/>  
\[2014-05-14 17:31:33\] \<linuxmaniac>
<https://kamailio.sipwise.com/view/cppcheck/job/kamailio41-cppcheck-full/2/cppcheckResult/>  
\[2014-05-14 17:31:54\] \<linuxmaniac> I didn't have time to check the
results yet  
\[2014-05-14 17:32:20\] \<miconda> ok  
\[2014-05-14 17:32:21\] \<linuxmaniac> but Alex did a fast check on some
and there are some stupid withs  
\[2014-05-14 17:32:24\] \<miconda> looking over them soon  
\[2014-05-14 17:32:25\] \<linuxmaniac> things  
\[2014-05-14 17:32:41\] \<miconda> btw, you wanted to send allerts to
mailing list  
\[2014-05-14 17:32:42\] \<linuxmaniac> for sure there are some false
positives  
\[2014-05-14 17:32:44\] \<miconda> that would be good  
\[2014-05-14 17:33:05\] \<miconda> let me know the email address to be
used for sending alerts and I can allow it to sr-dev  
\[2014-05-14 17:33:05\] \<linuxmaniac> miconda: yes, I would like to
send mails when a job fails  
\[2014-05-14 17:33:22\] \<linuxmaniac> mika: ^  
\[2014-05-14 17:33:33\] \<eZz> miconda: sorry, I was afk, now here  
\[2014-05-14 17:33:35\] \<linuxmaniac> miconda: ok  
\[2014-05-14 17:33:51\] \<mika> yeah, np to notify mailing list, i just
need a mail adr :)  
\[2014-05-14 17:34:07\] \<mika> checking what we have as outgoing, a
sec  
\[2014-05-14 17:34:20\] \<linuxmaniac> I plan to trigger the full jobs
once a mouth  
\[2014-05-14 17:34:23\] \<linuxmaniac> mounth  
\[2014-05-14 17:34:26\] \<eZz> miconda: please tell me later, when I can
tell something about those modules  
\[2014-05-14 17:35:15\] \<linuxmaniac> mika: it should send mails to
sr-dev@lists.sip-router.org  
\[2014-05-14 17:35:29\] \<linuxmaniac> miconda: correct?  
\[2014-05-14 17:36:02\] \<linuxmaniac> So, static analysis done, ok?  
\[2014-05-14 17:36:15\] \<miconda> yes, to ser-dev@…  
\[2014-05-14 17:36:21\] \<miconda> sr-dev@…  
\[2014-05-14 17:36:24\] \<mika> alright  
\[2014-05-14 17:36:46\] \<miconda> linuxmaniac: ok  
\[2014-05-14 17:36:49\] \<linuxmaniac> BTW, If you detect false
positives, please report them to me in order to filter them  
\[2014-05-14 17:37:07\] \<linuxmaniac> next, functional testing  
\[2014-05-14 17:37:13\] \<miconda> for valgrind, kamailio can be
compiled with system malloc  
\[2014-05-14 17:37:23\] \<miconda> instead of pkg_malloc/pkg_free  
\[2014-05-14 17:37:50\] \<linuxmaniac> miconda: but for shm?  
\[2014-05-14 17:38:07\] \<linuxmaniac> I think valgrind needs to be
teached  
\[2014-05-14 17:38:28\] \<linuxmaniac> of our \*\_malloc \*\_free
functions  
\[2014-05-14 17:38:53\] \<linuxmaniac> doesn't it?  
\[2014-05-14 17:39:01\] \<miconda> don’t know how  
\[2014-05-14 17:39:05\] \<miconda> could be possible  
\[2014-05-14 17:39:24\] \<miconda> I was thinking to try to replace
shm_malloc with pkg malloc  
\[2014-05-14 17:39:47\] \<linuxmaniac> miconda:
<http://valgrind.org/docs/manual/mc-manual.html#mc-manual.mempools>  
\[2014-05-14 17:40:05\] \<linuxmaniac> there is an API to teach valgrind
of custom allocators  
\[2014-05-14 17:40:15\] \<miconda> ok  
\[2014-05-14 17:40:19\] \<miconda> that might be better  
\[2014-05-14 17:40:30\] \<linuxmaniac> if we can do that...  
\[2014-05-14 17:40:40\] \<linuxmaniac> we can test all the memory
allocators  
\[2014-05-14 17:41:04\] \<miconda> because replacing shm with system
malloc might work only for static analysis, definitely not runtime  
\[2014-05-14 17:41:26\] \<linuxmaniac> I was aware of the API  
\[2014-05-14 17:41:47\] \<linuxmaniac> so that's why I'm sure we can do
this  
\[2014-05-14 17:41:52\] \<miconda> ok  
\[2014-05-14 17:42:17\] \<miconda> so, now: functional testing …  
\[2014-05-14 17:42:22\] \<linuxmaniac> I tried myself to figure out how
to do it, but failed  
\[2014-05-14 17:42:45\] \<linuxmaniac> yes, we need some tests in order
to be able to do some automatic testing  
\[2014-05-14 17:43:27\] \<miconda> is there a framework, or what is your
proposal?  
\[2014-05-14 17:43:30\] \<linuxmaniac> In sipwise I've created some
testings with customs scripts  
\[2014-05-14 17:43:43\] \<miconda> can the existing test scripts be
reused?  
\[2014-05-14 17:43:44\] \<mika> miconda: enabled, mails should be sent
from admin@kamailio.sipwise.com  
\[2014-05-14 17:44:32\] \<linuxmaniac> miconda:
<https://github.com/sipwise/kamailio-config-tests>  
\[2014-05-14 17:44:48\] \<linuxmaniac> this is heavily based in our
platform  
\[2014-05-14 17:45:11\] \<miconda> mika: ok, I will allow the address  
\[2014-05-14 17:45:16\] \<linuxmaniac> But I would like to discuss
something generic  
\[2014-05-14 17:45:23\] \<mika> miconda: alright, just let me know if
there are any problems  
\[2014-05-14 17:45:39\] \<linuxmaniac> mika: thanks :-)  
\[2014-05-14 17:45:58\] \<miconda> linuxmaniac: in current source code
we have ‘test/unit/\*’  
\[2014-05-14 17:46:05\] \<miconda> scripts done by Henning a while ago  
\[2014-05-14 17:46:18\] \<miconda> not sure how actual, not much
activity with them lately  
\[2014-05-14 17:47:14\] \<linuxmaniac> oej point me to asterisk testing
framework or something like that  
\[2014-05-14 17:47:29\] \<miconda> the one from sipwise uses sipp?  
\[2014-05-14 17:47:36\] \<linuxmaniac> miconda: yes  
\[2014-05-14 17:48:03\] \<miconda> and is any framework there  
\[2014-05-14 17:48:07\] \<linuxmaniac> the idea is: set the subscribers,
settings, etc...  
\[2014-05-14 17:48:10\] \<miconda> or something developed inhouse?  
\[2014-05-14 17:48:18\] \<linuxmaniac> this is done calling our API  
\[2014-05-14 17:48:31\] \<stangrze> there is nice collection of sipp
scripts on github  
\[2014-05-14 17:49:01\] \<\_gv\_\> If it's of interest, in Truphone Labs
we use both sipp and pjsua, triggered by Jenkins. pjsua has a nice
interface to manage this  
\[2014-05-14 17:49:12\] \<linuxmaniac> and then fire some sipp
processes, parse the kamailio log, and test the results  
\[2014-05-14 17:49:43\] \<linuxmaniac> with this we can test the
kamailio config flow  
\[2014-05-14 17:49:50\] \<linuxmaniac> var contents  
\[2014-05-14 17:50:04\] \<linuxmaniac> sip in an out messages  
\[2014-05-14 17:50:16\] \<miconda> \_gv\_: anything public? expecially
with pjsua?  
\[2014-05-14 17:50:36\] \<linuxmaniac> This is really inhouse  
\[2014-05-14 17:50:51\] \<miconda> linuxmaniac: yes, I expect this fits
for a specific config  
\[2014-05-14 17:51:07\] \<miconda> but probably we can get something for
generic parts  
\[2014-05-14 17:51:22\] \<miconda> eg., authentication, location
registration and lookup  
\[2014-05-14 17:51:35\] \<\_gv\_\> miconda: not that I'm aware of, but I
can see what's not sensitive and share  
\[2014-05-14 17:51:44\] \<linuxmaniac> miconda: yes, you know about my
work in debugger in order to be able to check config vars  
\[2014-05-14 17:51:54\] \<miconda> \_gv\_: ok, thanks  
\[2014-05-14 17:52:31\] \<linuxmaniac> but that is the issue we need to
figure out how we want to do this  
\[2014-05-14 17:53:02\] \<miconda> if there is a known/good framework
that can be reused, we can look at  
\[2014-05-14 17:53:15\] \<miconda> but I am not familiar with this, so
suggestions are welcome  
\[2014-05-14 17:53:18\] \<linuxmaniac> I don't know of any  
\[2014-05-14 17:53:41\] \<miconda> if not, reuse old scripts or what so
ever can be reused from sipwise thing  
\[2014-05-14 17:54:09\] \<miconda> the old scripts are shell, calling
various commands  
\[2014-05-14 17:54:43\] \<miconda> and, iirc, sending emails if they
fail  
\[2014-05-14 17:54:52\] \<miconda> at some point they were enabled on
devel.kamailio.org  
\[2014-05-14 17:54:54\] \<linuxmaniac> maybe I can write a page in the
wiki to summarize the proposal/issue  
\[2014-05-14 17:55:05\] \<miconda> linuxmaniac: that will be very good  
\[2014-05-14 17:55:15\] \<linuxmaniac> I will try to find the time  
\[2014-05-14 17:55:37\] \<miconda> linuxmaniac: updatedb; locate time  
\[2014-05-14 17:55:53\] \<linuxmaniac> :-)  
\[2014-05-14 17:56:01\] \<miconda> so we continue this via wiki and
mailing lists  
\[2014-05-14 17:56:13\] \<miconda> just don’t foget to get the topic
there  
\[2014-05-14 17:56:39\] \<stangrze> python test framework is quite nice,
would be good fit if we would use pjsip to send/receive messages  
\[2014-05-14 17:56:40\] \<miconda> and let’s see if \_gv\_ can plug some
goodies  
\[2014-05-14 17:56:44\] \<linuxmaniac> Ack  
\[2014-05-14 17:57:19\] \<miconda> stangrze: noted. prefering erlang
over python, but I can leave with for a test framework :-)  
\[2014-05-14 17:57:43\] \<miconda> eZz: still around?  
\[2014-05-14 17:57:43\] \<linuxmaniac> I would like python too  
\[2014-05-14 17:57:51\] \<caruizdiaz> libjitsi could also be an option.
Everyone knows java :D  
\[2014-05-14 17:57:58\] \<eZz> miconda: yeah  
\[2014-05-14 17:58:25\] \<stangrze> erlang test frameworks are even
nicer ;-)  

## open discussion

\[2014-05-14 17:58:26\] \<miconda> eZz: ok, you can say the details
about the new module  
\[2014-05-14 17:58:28\] \<eZz> well  
\[2014-05-14 17:58:38\] \<miconda> stangrze: I am sure :-)  
\[2014-05-14 17:58:50\] \<eZz> I'm working on 2 new modules (basically,
3 but 2 can be mixed)  
\[2014-05-14 17:58:52\] \<caruizdiaz> erlang and golang are pending
topics for me. Will learn them this year.  
\[2014-05-14 17:58:58\] \<eZz> the first one is sec_dnsbl  
\[2014-05-14 17:59:05\] \<eZz> block list using rbl lists  
\[2014-05-14 17:59:32\] \<eZz> caused a recent atack to my kamailio
:-)  
\[2014-05-14 17:59:55\] \<eZz> the 2nd is sec_ids, intrussion detect
system  
\[2014-05-14 18:00:20\] \<eZz> that is for blocking portscans and
various malicious attempts to scan peers (e.g. asterisk and so on)  
\[2014-05-14 18:00:42\] \<linuxmaniac> eZz... fail2ban?  
\[2014-05-14 18:01:19\] \<eZz> for kamailio? yes, a good idea but need
to create a many rules  
\[2014-05-14 18:01:41\] \<eZz> btw how about a thresholds and attempts
counting?  
\[2014-05-14 18:01:41\] \<linuxmaniac> many rules?  
\[2014-05-14 18:01:49\] \<eZz> I'm using bayessian filters  
\[2014-05-14 18:02:46\] \<eZz> linuxmaniac: I did not found any flexible
solution to cover it  
\[2014-05-14 18:02:53\] \<eZz> fail2ban is just an optional  
\[2014-05-14 18:02:59\] \<miconda> eZz: for the first module you query
dnsbl and block if coming from such ip?  
\[2014-05-14 18:03:07\] \<eZz> yes  
\[2014-05-14 18:03:33\] \<miconda> the second is not clear for me…  
\[2014-05-14 18:03:42\] \<eZz> if that IP is listed in public block
lists  
\[2014-05-14 18:04:14\] \<miconda> the sec_ids?  
\[2014-05-14 18:04:44\] \<eZz> no, it is for sec_dnsbl  
\[2014-05-14 18:04:53\] \<miconda> ok, that is clear  
\[2014-05-14 18:05:08\] \<miconda> but sec_ids what does exactly?  
\[2014-05-14 18:05:34\] \<eZz> if you know there was a such project as
snort  
\[2014-05-14 18:06:22\] \<eZz> it is a ids for linux servers, I'm using
a database of known attempts to hack the peers  
\[2014-05-14 18:06:59\] \<miconda> so again, interogating a
server/database to see if an ip is potentially mallicious or not?  
\[2014-05-14 18:07:26\] \<eZz> yes, it is using 3rd party database  
\[2014-05-14 18:07:39\] \<miconda> eZz: btw, are the module in planning
phase or kind of done already?  
\[2014-05-14 18:07:55\] \<eZz> it is in the progress  
\[2014-05-14 18:08:03\] \<miconda> s/module/modules/  
\[2014-05-14 18:08:12\] \<miconda> ok  
\[2014-05-14 18:08:17\] \<eZz> I did not pushed this yet  
\[2014-05-14 18:08:29\] \<eZz> it is unstable for now  
\[2014-05-14 18:08:55\] \<eZz> and for dnsbl module it is a problem of
delays of requests  
\[2014-05-14 18:08:59\] \<caruizdiaz> do you have it publicly available
so we can take a look?  
\[2014-05-14 18:09:16\] \<eZz> not yes  
\[2014-05-14 18:09:20\] \<eZz> yet  
\[2014-05-14 18:09:28\] \<eZz> I'll push them as soon as possible  
\[2014-05-14 18:09:37\] \<caruizdiaz> that would be great  
\[2014-05-14 18:09:38\] \<eZz> at least you can test dnsbl  
\[2014-05-14 18:10:00\] \<miconda> for dnsbl, there could be some
caching eventually  
\[2014-05-14 18:10:08\] \<eZz> yes  
\[2014-05-14 18:10:16\] \<eZz> it has negative and positive cache  
\[2014-05-14 18:10:26\] \<miconda> ok  
\[2014-05-14 18:10:38\] \<eZz> and white/black lists  
\[2014-05-14 18:10:51\] \<miconda> then looking forward to get the first
versions out there for a deeper look and test  
\[2014-05-14 18:11:03\] \<eZz> alright :-)  
\[2014-05-14 18:11:39\] \<miconda> the last topic, iirc from the
discussion above: caruizdiaz and some nosql  
\[2014-05-14 18:11:40\] \<eZz> well, another plan is to fix docs for
app_python and minor bugs for app_java  
\[2014-05-14 18:11:46\] \<eZz> I'm done  
\[2014-05-14 18:12:16\] \<miconda> eZz: you can do that directly …
documentation is important, fixing bugs even more important :-)  
\[2014-05-14 18:12:31\] \<eZz> yes :-)  
\[2014-05-14 18:13:10\] \<miconda> maybe we can run python test framwork
from app_python, linuxmaniac will love to do that :-)  
\[2014-05-14 18:13:14\] \<caruizdiaz> yes, I wanted to ask if there were
any plans to natively support nosql databases  
\[2014-05-14 18:13:28\] \<miconda> what do you mean natively?  
\[2014-05-14 18:13:48\] \<caruizdiaz> currently, db API is purely SQL
(aka, SQL DDL and DML)  
\[2014-05-14 18:14:19\] \<miconda> well, the sql is in modules like
db_mysql, db_postgress…  
\[2014-05-14 18:14:20\] \<caruizdiaz> if we want to add, for example,
mongodb, redis, etc, we have no way of using the current API to do so  
\[2014-05-14 18:14:26\] \<stangrze> i think you can connect to couchdb
using json module  
\[2014-05-14 18:14:40\] \<miconda> but there is also cassandra
implementation for db api  
\[2014-05-14 18:14:41\] \<eZz> I'm also using mongodb and redis  
\[2014-05-14 18:14:47\] \<eZz> and my module is using redis btw  
\[2014-05-14 18:14:49\] \<caruizdiaz> currently, we support cassandra,
but only because cassandra has CQL, which resembles a poor SQL  
\[2014-05-14 18:15:12\] \<caruizdiaz> and it is buggy for that reason.  
\[2014-05-14 18:15:21\] \<miconda> but the db api is structure based  
\[2014-05-14 18:15:34\] \<miconda> it doesn’t expose any sql  
\[2014-05-14 18:15:43\] \<caruizdiaz> yes, but it has SQL embedded  
\[2014-05-14 18:15:43\] \<miconda> plus there is db_berkely  
\[2014-05-14 18:15:58\] \<miconda> caruizdiaz: where is the sql
embedded?  
\[2014-05-14 18:16:25\] \<caruizdiaz> usrloc for example: it has some
plain sql queries that make it impossible to use with a dbms that does
not support sql  
\[2014-05-14 18:16:33\] \<eZz> what about hadoop?  
\[2014-05-14 18:16:47\] \<miconda> caruizdiaz: iirc, that is for db only
mode  
\[2014-05-14 18:17:04\] \<miconda> to get the natted clients  
\[2014-05-14 18:17:40\] \<miconda> anyhow, that is done via db api
raw_query  
\[2014-05-14 18:17:55\] \<miconda> which can be made mod param to
specify the format of the query  
\[2014-05-14 18:18:14\] \<stangrze> +1 for this  
\[2014-05-14 18:18:15\] \<caruizdiaz> what do you suggest to support
nosql databases in the database layer?  
\[2014-05-14 18:18:51\] \<miconda> caruizdiaz: not understanding your
question exactly  
\[2014-05-14 18:18:52\] \<caruizdiaz> maybe I am confused, but I
remember seeing SQL in usrloc to load contacts from the database  
\[2014-05-14 18:19:15\] \<miconda> caruizdiaz: should not be  
\[2014-05-14 18:19:41\] \<caruizdiaz> will check that out later, but I
am 90% sure there is.  
\[2014-05-14 18:19:56\] \<caruizdiaz> let me explain it with an
example  
\[2014-05-14 18:20:29\] \<caruizdiaz> If I wanted to add a redis
database to Kamailio, with the full feature set of including the modules
that need a database backend, that would be impossible to my
understanding  
\[2014-05-14 18:21:05\] \<caruizdiaz> and the reason for this is that
Kamailio is tied to SQL databases.  
\[2014-05-14 18:21:12\] \<linuxmaniac> sure, how can you query a
nonsql???  
\[2014-05-14 18:21:13\] \<miconda> the only one is for db only mode, to
fetch the natted contacts  
\[2014-05-14 18:21:15\] \<eZz> will be a problems with object mapping
only  
\[2014-05-14 18:21:23\] \<eZz> but not with native formats  
\[2014-05-14 18:21:30\] \<miconda> so it does a custom match on flags
column, to find those if nat flag set  
\[2014-05-14 18:21:53\] \<caruizdiaz> and that's precisely a reason it
can't be used even with Cassandra  
\[2014-05-14 18:22:19\] \<caruizdiaz> because the syntax is incorrect
for CQL parser  
\[2014-05-14 18:22:25\] \<miconda> caruizdiaz: you have to write a
connector implementing the api  
\[2014-05-14 18:22:31\] \<miconda> as i said, there is one for bdb  
\[2014-05-14 18:22:35\] \<miconda> there is one for db_text  
\[2014-05-14 18:23:00\] \<miconda> none of them have any sql  
\[2014-05-14 18:23:05\] \<caruizdiaz> that was the hint I was looking
for, thank you :)  
\[2014-05-14 18:23:23\] \<miconda> the api itself is not for sql  
\[2014-05-14 18:23:32\] \<caruizdiaz> and what about usrloc (and maybe
others), do we need to remove that raw sql query?  
\[2014-05-14 18:24:14\] \<miconda> for usrloc can be a mod param to
specify the query  
\[2014-05-14 18:24:31\] \<miconda> it is the query to get natted contact
in db only mode  
\[2014-05-14 18:24:47\] \<caruizdiaz> ok, I was not aware of that
param  
\[2014-05-14 18:24:50\] \<miconda> and that might not be supported by
the connector you work with  
\[2014-05-14 18:24:55\] \<miconda> it is not a param now  
\[2014-05-14 18:24:58\] \<miconda> but can be added  
\[2014-05-14 18:25:12\] \<caruizdiaz> but in either case, if we are
going to be database agnostic, we should fully use the db abstraction
layer  
\[2014-05-14 18:25:39\] \<miconda> right now it is embedded, because it
was for db sql mode only  
\[2014-05-14 18:25:46\] \<stangrze> caruizdiaz: i know what you mean, i
went through this writing erlang connector  
\[2014-05-14 18:26:13\] \<miconda> when there will be db nosql only
mode, then it can extended  
\[2014-05-14 18:26:23\] \<caruizdiaz> maybe we could work on this
together stangrze :)  
\[2014-05-14 18:26:31\] \<miconda> but db api is not really tied in any
way to sql  
\[2014-05-14 18:26:43\] \<miconda> again, you can look at db_berkely  
\[2014-05-14 18:26:45\] \<caruizdiaz> thank you for the clarification  
\[2014-05-14 18:26:48\] \<miconda> also db_ldap  
\[2014-05-14 18:26:53\] \<caruizdiaz> I will, thanks.  
\[2014-05-14 18:26:56\] \<miconda> but db_ldap is for v2  
\[2014-05-14 18:26:57\] \<stangrze> would be nice if all queries could
be configurabe parameters, not constructed by c code  
\[2014-05-14 18:27:02\] \<miconda> perhaps is db2_ldap  
\[2014-05-14 18:27:28\] \<caruizdiaz> it's really important to support
nosql database since is precisely the kind of databases we use in this
industry, for performance reasons  
\[2014-05-14 18:27:29\] \<miconda> stangrze: are you aware of any other
place than usrloc?  
\[2014-05-14 18:27:31\] \<stangrze> user cuold than use sql stored
functions in postgresql in examble  
\[2014-05-14 18:27:38\] \<miconda> where there are embedded queries?  
\[2014-05-14 18:28:23\] \<miconda> caruizdiaz: db api was added in 2001
for that reason  
\[2014-05-14 18:28:24\] \<stangrze> i dont remember that now, there are
modules which refuses to load if raw_query capability is not provided  
\[2014-05-14 18:28:36\] \<miconda> and db_berkely is probably 10 years
old  
\[2014-05-14 18:28:57\] \<miconda> but in my industry there were no
nosql big demands  
\[2014-05-14 18:29:08\] \<stangrze> take look how this stuff is done in
gnugk  
\[2014-05-14 18:29:08\] \<caruizdiaz> wow, I was in high school 10 years
ago :D  
\[2014-05-14 18:29:18\] \<eZz> :)  
\[2014-05-14 18:29:24\] \<miconda> the object model doesn’t fit always
the purpose  
\[2014-05-14 18:30:15\] \<miconda> caruizdiaz: apparently only 7 years
old  
\[2014-05-14 18:30:29\] \<caruizdiaz> \*only\* :D  
\[2014-05-14 18:30:43\] \<miconda> contributed by a guy from Cisco …  
\[2014-05-14 18:30:50\] \<stangrze> caruizdiaz: you may try use my
db_erlang module and some intermediate code in erlang to connect to
nosql  
\[2014-05-14 18:30:58\] \<stangrze> it works with riak  
\[2014-05-14 18:31:26\] \<miconda> anyhow, to conclude  
\[2014-05-14 18:31:40\] \<miconda> it should work to connect to nosql
modules with current db api  
\[2014-05-14 18:31:48\] \<miconda> but a connector module has to be
written  
\[2014-05-14 18:31:57\] \<caruizdiaz> I already starred your repo
stangrze ;)  
\[2014-05-14 18:32:05\] \<miconda> and, if there is need for adjustments
in the db api, then we can do it, no problem  
\[2014-05-14 18:32:21\] \<caruizdiaz> cool  
\[2014-05-14 18:32:23\] \<miconda> db api evolved over the time … and
can still be changed with new versions  
\[2014-05-14 18:32:47\] \<miconda> the main problem with nosql is
defining the objects  
\[2014-05-14 18:32:59\] \<miconda> which is not something that can be
really generic  
\[2014-05-14 18:33:21\] \<miconda> because each company/service/system
design the object to be optimized for their specific use case  
\[2014-05-14 18:33:23\] \<caruizdiaz> that's right  
\[2014-05-14 18:33:51\] \<caruizdiaz> there are probably some tables
that could be exported because of the way there were conceived, but we
can work on that as well  
\[2014-05-14 18:34:31\] \<caruizdiaz> they\*  
\[2014-05-14 18:34:59\] \<stangrze> maybe we could start a srdb3
library, which would solve those issues  
\[2014-05-14 18:35:17\] \<caruizdiaz> yes  
\[2014-05-14 18:35:30\] \<stangrze> there is no dierence in approach
between srdb1 and 2  
\[2014-05-14 18:35:43\] \<miconda> btw, the db_perlvdb might be used as
well  
\[2014-05-14 18:35:53\] \<caruizdiaz> this is actually a major software
design task, and we should start a thread of the mailing list to gather
some opinions and hints  
\[2014-05-14 18:36:44\] \<linuxmaniac> +1  
\[2014-05-14 18:37:20\] \<miconda> ok, anything else?  
\[2014-05-14 18:37:39\] \<miconda> running over 2h30min by now …  
\[2014-05-14 18:38:01\] \<stangrze> yes  
\[2014-05-14 18:38:34\] \<miconda> last chance to add something in
discussion  
\[2014-05-14 18:38:41\] \<stangrze> i'd like someone to suggest me a
name for that broadsoft as-feature-sync module  
\[2014-05-14 18:38:57\] \<stangrze> this is generally presence related  
\[2014-05-14 18:39:11\] \<miconda> isn’t that like sca module?  
\[2014-05-14 18:39:16\] \<miconda> or something else?  
\[2014-05-14 18:39:21\] \<linuxmaniac> I have to leave, see you!  
\[2014-05-14 18:39:36\] \<stangrze> its a subscibtion and sync for stuff
like dnd and callforward  
\[2014-05-14 18:39:44\] \<miconda>
<http://kamailio.org/docs/modules/stable/modules/sca.html>  
\[2014-05-14 18:39:54\] \<miconda> ok, so not for blinking lamps, etc…  
\[2014-05-14 18:39:58\] \<stangrze> you can to that on cisco/linksys
phones  
\[2014-05-14 18:40:41\] \<caruizdiaz> chau Victor  
\[2014-05-14 18:41:08\] \<stangrze> this is not sca  
\[2014-05-14 18:41:46\] \<miconda> linuxmaniac: thanks for all here,
have a nice evening!  
\[2014-05-14 18:42:12\] \<stangrze> it let you set stuff using phone
gui, and get this propagated to application server, and back after phone
reboot in ex.  
\[2014-05-14 18:42:33\] \<miconda> stangrze: from phone to kamailio is
sip?  
\[2014-05-14 18:42:52\] \<miconda> is the classic subscribe/notify used
around?  
\[2014-05-14 18:43:02\] \<stangrze> yes,  
\[2014-05-14 18:43:06\] \<stangrze>
<http://community.polycom.com/polycom/attachments/polycom/VoIP/2233/1/DeviceFeatureKeySynchronizationFD.pdf>  
\[2014-05-14 18:43:21\] \<stangrze> yes, but somehow spoiled, see spec  
\[2014-05-14 18:43:49\] \<miconda> is it going to reuse presence or pua
modules in any way?  
\[2014-05-14 18:43:56\] \<stangrze> yes  
\[2014-05-14 18:43:58\] \<miconda> or is going to be all standalone
module?  
\[2014-05-14 18:44:16\] \<miconda> ok, then you can prefix it with
presence\_ or pua\_, depending on which one relies on  
\[2014-05-14 18:44:21\] \<miconda> and then add some suffic  
\[2014-05-14 18:44:38\] \<miconda> presence_dksf  
\[2014-05-14 18:45:03\] \<stangrze> i guessd that, ;-) but
presence_what? broadsoft? could have trademark issues  
\[2014-05-14 18:45:10\] \<miconda> \_dfks - Device Feature Key
Synchronization  
\[2014-05-14 18:45:18\] \<stangrze> ok, cool  
\[2014-05-14 18:45:21\] \<stangrze> thanks  
\[2014-05-14 18:45:43\] \<miconda> welcome  
\[2014-05-14 18:45:59\] \<miconda> is this a planned module?  
\[2014-05-14 18:46:11\] \<stangrze> i actually have some stuff working  
\[2014-05-14 18:46:33\] \<miconda> ok  
\[2014-05-14 18:46:54\] \<miconda> any other topics to discuss?  
\[2014-05-14 18:46:57\] \<stangrze> using pathed pua, and pua_mi i can
preload doc for initial subscription, and get that on phone screen  
\[2014-05-14 18:48:16\] \<stangrze> i thin ther eis an issue in pua, it
is using some bit flags to mark event types, it is not good for adding
features  
\[2014-05-14 18:48:41\] \<stangrze> and more event types  
\[2014-05-14 18:48:53\] \<miconda> stangrze: yes, that has to be
reworked somehow  
\[2014-05-14 18:49:18\] \<stangrze> ok, i'm done, thanks  
\[2014-05-14 18:49:43\] \<miconda> welcome! looking forward to all these
modules  
\[2014-05-14 18:49:59\] \<miconda> then, we are finished!  
\[2014-05-14 18:50:06\] \<caruizdiaz> :)  
\[2014-05-14 18:50:32\] \<miconda> thank everyone!  
\[2014-05-14 18:50:34\] \<caruizdiaz> have you all GMT +x people a nice
evening :)  
\[2014-05-14 18:50:47\] \<javar> miconda: thank you!  
\[2014-05-14 18:50:52\] \<caruizdiaz> thanks to you  
\[2014-05-14 18:51:15\] \<miconda> hopefully I have the chat history on,
so I will publish the relevant discussion on wiki  
\[2014-05-14 18:51:56\] \<miconda> have a productive day or nice
evening, depending where you are!  
\[2014-05-14 18:52:17\] \<caruizdiaz> it's the middle of the day here:
productive day ahead  
\[2014-05-14 18:54:07\] \<eZz> thanks to all  
\[2014-05-14 18:54:19\] \<eZz> have a great evening/night!  
\[2014-05-14 18:54:45\] \<caruizdiaz> bye bye  
\[2014-05-14 18:55:01\] \<miconda> bye  
