# IRC Devel Meeting - 2016-11-08

Date:

-   **Selected: 15:00 UTC, Tuesday, Nov 08, 2016**
    -   can attend: dcm qxork vseva
        -   cannot attend:
-   Alternatives (add your id if you can attend, or if you want to
    addend, but you cannot)
    -   Nov 09: dcm vseva
        -   cannot attend: qxork
    -   Nov 10: dcm qxork vseva
        -   cannot attend:

Time of the meeting across the world:

-   16:00 - Berlin, Germany
-   15:00 - London, UK
-   10:00 - New York, USA

Utilities:

-   [Time
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html)
-   IRC webchat: <http://webchat.freenode.net/>
-   IRC client apps:
    <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Relay_Chat#Clients>

Place:

-   **#kamailio** IRC channel on **irc.freenode.net** server

## Participants

Participation is open to anyone, just join the IRC channel if you want
to participate.

People adding notes in the agenda using abbreviations:

-   dcm - Daniel-Constantin Mierla
-   qxork - Fred Posner

## Agenda

Kamailio Development Status:

-   open issues (dcm)
-   rpm packaging (dcm)

Administration:

-   community interaction and communication channels

Kamailio 5.0

-   <https://www.kamailio.org/wiki/devel/kamailio-5.0-design>
-   kemi updates
-   source code tree restructuring (dcm)
-   roadmap/timelines to next major release (dcm)

Meeting (on site or online/remote sync'ing) for Designing, Coding and
Tuning Kamailio 5.0

-   yes/no?
-   who?
-   where?
-   when?

## Minutes

-   07:00 miconda: hello!
-   07:01 qxork: @miconda - hello
-   07:01 miconda: we will start the discussions soon … let’s allow 1-2
    minutes more
-   07:01 qxork: ACK
-   07:01 miconda: hope everyone is doing well!
-   07:02 miconda: I know some are busy voting todate, so I hope not to
    keep this long
-   07:02 miconda: s/todate/today/
-   07:02 abalashov: Guten Nachmittag!
-   07:02 carstenbock: :-)
-   07:03 miconda: abalashov: berlin had a perfect weather for your
    taste this autumn … you should have come around this time
-   07:03 qxork: I guess that means no humidity
-   07:03 carstenbock: Hamburg is covered in snow....
-   07:04 miconda: carstenbock: keep that there for a while, don’t let
    it south ;-)
-   07:04 abalashov: miconda: Berlin nearly always has perfect weather
    for my taste, except the warmer times in summer.
-   07:05 miconda: abalashov: quite often it’s not much summer around
    anyhow
-   07:05 miconda: ok — I guess we can start
-   07:05 qxork: =)
-   07:05 miconda: as usual, first are the major issues
-   07:05 miconda: if there is something that people feel is not working
    as it should
-   07:05 miconda: code or admin wise
-   07:06 miconda: ok … so nothing reported here
-   07:06 miconda: I spent some time with code analyzers lately, in
    preparation to relocate files for 5.0, thinking that backporting
    later might be more dificult
-   07:07 miconda: I usually do it during the testing period, but this
    time I did another session earlier
-   07:07 abalashov: I have something I wanted to discuss, but I did not
    manage to put it on the agenda.
-   07:07 abalashov: It relates to mhomed=1 behaviour.
-   07:07 abalashov: I can also just post about it later if now is not
    the appropriate time.
-   07:08 miconda: abalashov: you can describe it shortly, let’s see if
    we can get something now
-   07:08 miconda: if not, later ...
-   07:09 abalashov: Basically, if an interface has a primary and a
    secondary IP both on the same subnet.
-   07:09 abalashov: mhomed doesn't seem to make intelligent decisions
    about which source IP to send it from.
-   07:09 abalashov: Even if the appropriate constraints are set in the
    routing table.
-   07:10 eschmidbauer: is live reload of .cfg planned for 5.0 release?
-   07:10 abalashov: Or, let me rephrase that.
-   07:10 abalashov: Multiple \_interfaces\_ with IPs on the same
    subnet.
-   07:10 abalashov: As sometimes happens in complex topologies.
-   07:10 miconda: eschmidbauer: yes, if you write routing rules in lua
    (via so called kemi interface)
-   07:11 eschmidbauer: ok, so only if you write your routing logic in
    lua ?
-   07:11 abalashov: The interface detection algorithm should set the
    source IP to each of the registered listener addresses. Otherwise
    you could potentially get a completely different address on one of
    those interfaces in the utility function that figures out the
    interface to use.
-   07:11 miconda: abalashov: afaik, mhomed triggers creation of tmp
    sockets to see if the kernel complains for routing
-   07:11 qxork: abalashov: even with setting a $fs or similar?
-   07:11 abalashov: qxork: No, the intent here is to avoid explicit
    steering with $fs as it would be too labourious.
-   07:12 qxork: abalashov: understood
-   07:12 abalashov: miconda: So, in other words, if you try to route to
    $SOME_REMOTE_SUBNET that's not directly connected in the local
    routing table, Kamailio gets confused because that remote subnet is
    not in the listener list.
-   07:12 miconda: abalashov: but this will require a more detailed
    description of the interfaces setup, what happens and what should
    happen
-   07:12 abalashov: Even though the local system's routing table
    describes what should happen.
-   07:13 abalashov: Okay, I'll take it to the lists later with a more
    detailed description.
-   07:13 miconda: abalashov: ok, I think it requires code
    investigation, so the best is to open an issue on bugtracker
-   07:13 abalashov: Okay.
-   07:13 abalashov: Sorry, I figured it might be a bit too esoteric for
    this meeting.
-   07:14 miconda: we tried ;-)
-   07:14 miconda: something else - anyone?!?
-   07:15 abalashov: qxork: Imagine a system with like 5 IPs on 3
    interfaces. You don't want to guide everything with $fs there.
-   07:15 qxork: just good feedback =)
-   07:15 miconda: next will be (again) if anyone here has interest in
    becoming maintainer of (or helping with) rpm packaging
-   07:15 qxork: abalashov: understood completely and looking forward to
    following this
-   07:15 abalashov: qxork: The desire would be to have Kamailio just do
    the right thing magically, assisted by the local routing table's
    policy routing rules.
-   07:15 miconda: there was a pull request recently on updating the
    rpm specs for centos
-   07:15 abalashov: qxork: Becomes important in a lot of weird "cloud"
    and "SBC" applications of Kamailio.
-   07:15 miconda: so I guess people use rpms
-   07:16 abalashov: miconda: They do, even though they really
    shouldn't. ;-)
-   07:16 miconda: I package them, but don’t use, so it might not be the
    best outcome (e.g., hard to see if something get’s broken)
-   07:17 miconda: and to finish with the admin part — anyone wanting
    something new to be used for collaboration within the project
-   07:18 miconda: or we are fine with the mailing lists and irc
    channel, plus the github.com tools for bugs and pull requests ...
-   07:18 abalashov: To my own surprise, Github has proven fairly
    adequate for this, at least in my eyes.
-   07:18 abalashov: If nothing else, the integration with the repo and
    the rest of the workflow is valuable.
-   07:18 abalashov: cresl1n: Privet!
-   07:18 iZverg: I had same schema: Asteridk registered on K. Call came
    on K. with "To: NUMBER@KAMAILIOIP". after forward A. receive same
    "To:", but I need "To: NUMBER@ASTERISKIP".
-   07:18 qxork: seen a lot more recent activity on irc...
-   07:18 miconda: abalashov: indeed, at least handling contributions is
    easier
-   07:18 cresl1n: abalashov: You're on IRC!
-   07:19 cresl1n: Dobroye utro :-)
-   07:19 carstenbock: Unfortunately, my colleague Marcel cannot join
    today.
-   07:19 abalashov: iZverg: That can be accomplished with the uac
    module's uac_replace_to(), if it absolutely has to be, though it's
    generally hacky and theoretically undesirable if it can be avoided.
-   07:19 miconda: qxork: good to hear that, I was a lot of time
    traveling in the past months, so not much active on irc
-   07:19 abalashov: iZverg: But it works well.
-   07:20 carstenbock: He could help with RPM Packaging, he spent some
    time updating the RPM specs for our VoLTE and WebRTC setups....
-   07:20 miconda: carstenbock: ok, noted that … will ping you for a
    reminder to see what can be done here
-   07:21 carstenbock: (Operators love RedHat)
-   07:21 iZverg: abalashov: ok, thank you. I don't know why, but A.
    regged on K. has ugly context in rare cases...
-   07:21 abalashov: miconda: I agree, there's a lot of value in just
    using what's already built in without having to integrate or have
    information scattered across disparate tools.
-   07:21 miconda: ok, if no new suggestion for project collaboration,
    then we can move to next big topic — kamailio 5.0
-   07:21 abalashov: miconda: I am certainly much more inclined to
    submit issues now that I don't have to figure out where FlySpray
    lives for the thousandth time.
-   07:22 miconda: abalashov: :-)
-   07:22 miconda: abalashov: I thought there were no issues to report,
    not lack of knowing where :-)
-   07:22 abalashov: :D
-   07:23 miconda: ok then — kamailio 5.0
-   07:23 miconda: first — some update from my side
-   07:23 abalashov: Live config reloading is of course a hot topic, and
    I understand the complexities of reloading the native route script
    given how deeply its actions and state are seeded in runtime.
-   07:23 abalashov: But I wonder if perhaps there is some means of
    "isolating" it similar to the Lua approach.
-   07:23 miconda: kemi framework is implemented for lua and python
-   07:24 abalashov: Making it "relocatable" or "reloadable".
-   07:24 abalashov: Or maybe that would require rewriting Kamailio. :-)
-   07:24 qxork: I'm torn on reload (live reload)
-   07:24 miconda: for those not familiar - kemi is the framework that
    allows writing routing logic in different scripting languages
-   07:25 miconda: now supported for native kamailio.cfg, lua and python
-   07:25 abalashov: qxork: It would be genuinely \_complicated\_. You'd
    have to figure out what to do with existing open transactions,
    dialogs, associated variables, messages in process...
-   07:25 qxork: I see the request side... but at the same time, there
    are many tools/modules to be able to reload or make live needs
    happen
-   07:25 miconda: I guess we need also javascript to match today’s
    world expectations :-)
-   07:25 abalashov: miconda: Oh god.
-   07:25 qxork: My thought would be a better approach to ones config
    would eliminate most needs of a live reload.
-   07:26 abalashov: qxork: I generally agree, but sometimes it just
    can't be helped, i.e. things get hard-coded for performance reasons.
-   07:26 abalashov: miconda: The true holy grail would of course be
    live reloading of native kamailio.cfg in entirety.
-   07:26 abalashov: miconda: But I think you ruled this out in the
    past.
-   07:26 qxork: abalashov: agreed... which is a design consideration =)
-   07:27 miconda: abalashov: with a certain level of rewriting (maybe
    99% of the config interpreter), that can be possible of course
-   07:27 abalashov: qxork: Also keep in mind there are very complex
    kamailio.cfg's which can be generated from templating engines using
    'dynamic' parameters... this is a common approach where performance
    without waiting on DB I/O or things like that is an important
    consideration.
-   07:27 abalashov: miconda: That's a pretty high level of rewriting.
    ;-)
-   07:27 volga629\_: I think kamailio need live console
-   07:27 volga629\_: like freeswitch or asterisk
-   07:27 miconda: abalashov: but the thing I see more important is
    performance of an interpreter with static pre-compilation, vs the
    interpreter that can reload
-   07:28 abalashov: volga629\_: It kind of has that, in the form of its
    management/RPC APIs. 'kamcmd' essentially behaves this way, it just
    doesn't have the ncurses CLI that gives asterisk -r or fs_cli its
    "live console feeling". If you think about it, fs_cli talks to FS
    entirely via ESL.
-   07:28 qxork: miconda/abalashov: +1
-   07:28 abalashov: miconda: I agree with that strongly.
-   07:28 miconda: because if we lose too much of the performance, then
    makes no sense
-   07:28 abalashov: miconda: And that necessarily requires stuff deeply
    embedded into runtime.
-   07:28 abalashov: miconda: Stuff that can't be easily reloaded like
    that.
-   07:29 miconda: maybe in the future, we can write a second
    kamailio.cfg interpreter, with reload support, as an alternative to
    the existing one
-   07:29 abalashov: Yep -- the native config script exists because it's
    the fastest approach, it simply beats any other config approach.
-   07:29 abalashov: And that is a value-add that should stay.
-   07:29 qxork: agree strongly
-   07:30 miconda: at the end, if we look only at routing blocks, we
    need to work around the fixup of the parameters
-   07:30 abalashov: miconda: I just wanted to hear you say it would
    take 99% rewrite. :)
-   07:30 abalashov: Yeah, there's all kinds of complications I didn't
    even think about at the first pass.
-   07:30 miconda: abalashov: that’s about the config interpreter, not
    the entire kamailio
-   07:30 abalashov: There's a lot of what is essentially "static code
    analysis" that goes on on boot.
-   07:30 abalashov: miconda: Yeah, I know.
-   07:31 abalashov: That's what I meant.
-   07:31 miconda: abalashov: it will be more of taking each config
    function and be sure it can deal ok with doing fixups at runtime
-   07:31 osas: another option would be to have the ability to reload a
    route (when a small change is done inside an existing route)
-   07:31 abalashov: osas: But calls to e.g. module functions have
    fixups there too.
-   07:32 qxork: Well, if they switch to using lua lets say... this
    eliminates a lot of need for the reload, no?
-   07:32 abalashov: qxork: As long as they're willing to compromise
    performance and to use Lua. There's a certain appeal to having a
    reloadxml-like cake you can eat too. And you know all about cakes.
-   07:32 miconda: qxork: you can do reload of lua script that has the
    routing blocks
-   07:32 qxork: abalashov: and eating
-   07:32 miconda: useful links:
    <https://www.kamailio.org/wiki/devel/kamailio-5.0-design>
-   07:33 osas: abalashov: yes, but probably does not require a new cfg
    interpreter
-   07:33 volga629\_: console will give ability reload separate module
    and with it configuration or reload all. Also you can control
    visually what is go in on when reload in progress
-   07:33 iZverg: K. 5.x still has unfixed CPU issues on FreeBSD...
-   07:33 abalashov: volga629\_: Well, a console cannot provide
    functionality that isn't otherwise there simply because it is a
    console. :-) A "live console" is a description of a particular kind
    of user interface/"user experience", not so much a vivid descriptor
    of what it can do.
-   07:33 miconda: kemi:
    <https://www.kamailio.org/wiki/devel/config-engines>
-   07:34 qxork: I can see some fun performance testing of taking
    existing configs and testing as .cfg, lua, python, etc.
-   07:34 abalashov: miconda: Has any picture emerged of what a
    continuous integration pipeline might look like?
-   07:35 abalashov: qxork: Well, if fun is what you call that ...
-   07:35 miconda: abalashov: lua is calling kamailio functions directly
    (no complex layer in between)
-   07:35 miconda: the only difference is on parameter evaluation
-   07:35 abalashov: Ahh.
-   07:35 abalashov: That's good to know.
-   07:35 miconda: in kamailio.cfg is done through the fixup system
-   07:35 abalashov: So perhaps Lua config is not as slow as I imagine
    it.
-   07:35 miconda: in lua.cfg is done by lua operations
-   07:35 abalashov: My mental picture was somewhere on par with
    app_perl.
-   07:35 qxork: abalashov: it's taken me years to appreciate lua
-   07:35 miconda: but in both cases a parameter reslves to an integer
    or a string
-   07:36 miconda: and calls the base function in c
-   07:36 miconda: so for kamailio.cfg interpreter we have wrapper
    functions that evaluate the parameters from fixup form to these int
    or string values
-   07:36 abalashov: miconda: If that's the case, then why is it easier
    to reload?
-   07:37 miconda: because lua doesn’t pre-compiles parameters in pkg
-   07:37 abalashov: miconda: Just because the execution is still a call
    out to a reloadable Lua codebase in the end, not "static" in the way
    native cfg is?
-   07:37 abalashov: Ah, so it's all got to do with the fact that the
    parameters are all left floating/dynamic?
-   07:38 miconda: abalashov: more or less yes
-   07:38 abalashov: But how is the handling of existing in-flight
    transactions and dialogs and other state accomplished?
-   07:38 miconda: abalashov: writing a new interpreter might be easier
    that just making the old one in dual mode
-   07:38 miconda: the code can be even simpler
-   07:38 miconda: I mean a new interpreter for kamailio.cfg with reload
    capability
-   07:39 miconda: abalashov: it will have to do lookup at the moment it
    needs to execute the routing block
-   07:39 abalashov: So what happens if I have a message that's in the
    middle of winding its way through a worker at the time the reload is
    issued?
-   07:39 miconda: for example: right now we resolve a
    failure_route\[xyz\] to its pointer in memory
-   07:39 abalashov: Or am waiting on an fr_timer and a pending
    failure_route?
-   07:40 miconda: for lua (via key), we keep the name of the function
    to be executed
-   07:40 abalashov: Ahhh.
-   07:40 miconda: that can be done also with a c interpreter
-   07:40 abalashov: Well, you'd still have to deal with the target
    function simply going away.
-   07:40 miconda: but don’t optimize at startup
-   07:40 abalashov: And things like that.
-   07:40 miconda: that’s ok, even now it works if the failure route
    block is not found
-   07:41 miconda: but I think we have some check at startup
-   07:41 abalashov: You do.
-   07:41 abalashov: I can't get Kamailio to start with a nonexistent
    failure_route armed.
-   07:41 abalashov: So I assumed that was quite 'static' as well.
-   07:41 miconda: but we can print a log message at runtime if the
    routing block is not found by interpreter
-   07:42 hughw: Hello.
-   07:42 miconda: we ca still check when we parse the config file, so
    we can (always) do some optimizations
-   07:42 abalashov: miconda: So what is the prospectus for a new native
    cfg interpreter that works on the principle of keying functions and
    other referents by key rather than by memory address?
-   07:42 miconda: like keeping versions of the config file and along he
    name keep the version and a pointer in memory to the routing block,
    then when executing, if the version is the same, run directly,
    otherwise, lookup again
-   07:42 abalashov: miconda: Is it something you might be willing to do
    for 5.0?
-   07:43 hughw: If we are upgrading individual routing blocks at
    runtime, do we need to keep the old version of the block until all
    references to it (transactions) have gone
-   07:43 miconda: still extra checks will be done, so it will not be
    same kind of complexity at runtime like with old interpreter
-   07:43 abalashov: hughw: That could get complicated quickly.
-   07:43 abalashov: hughw: Endless reference counts for an increasingly
    large number of entities...
-   07:43 hughw: e.g. is someone sets t_on_failure(MY_ROUTE) and then
    the route is changed before the reply comes back
-   07:43 miconda: hughw: the current approach with lua configs (via
    kemi) is to keep names instead of pointers, with lookup at runtime
-   07:44 abalashov: hughw: What do you do with things like
    event_route\[xhttp:request\] and etc?
-   07:44 abalashov: Version and refcount absolutely everything?
-   07:44 abalashov: What if xhttp module is unloaded and this
    event_route is no longer provided? :)
-   07:44 miconda: hughw: actually in the lua, there is no failure_route
    concept, but providing a callback function name to be executed
-   07:44 hughw: True
-   07:44 miconda: abalashov: reloading the modules will make it a lot
    more complex
-   07:45 abalashov: I mean if it's simply not loaded in the new config.
-   07:45 abalashov: But we have referents going to custom routes
    provided by modules.
-   07:45 miconda: we are targeting reloading the runtime active parts —
    the routing blocks
-   07:45 miconda: because for modules, they create connections to
    backends, load data at startup, etc …
-   07:45 abalashov: Sounds like a real mess. Hard to reason about.
    Maybe easier for you -- if so, that is very fortunate ...
-   07:45 miconda: this may be ng-ng-ng version
-   07:46 miconda: so to summarize ...
-   07:46 abalashov: Well, the other thing you have to consider is, if
    the approach to reloading taken is to drop lots of state altogether,
    then at some point you have to ask what is the benefit of live
    reloading versus restarting.
-   07:46 abalashov: In other words, what is "live" about it? :)
-   07:46 miconda: getting an interpreter that can reload routing blocks
    might not be that complex, but it requires a lot of walk through the
    exiting functions and adapt them to work in both modes
-   07:47 miconda: changing the current interpreter might not be the
    easiet option, so writing an alternative can be better
-   07:47 abalashov: miconda: What is your level of eagerness to write
    such a new alternative on a scale of 1 to very eager?
-   07:47 miconda: but I don’t expect to add much more performance than
    a lua interpreter, but I don’t say it is something that should not
    be done
-   07:48 qxork: I'd love to see this put off to Kamailio 6
-   07:48 miconda: abalashov: probably I can get one as core framework,
    but I don’t want to walk all the kamailio mdules to be sure the
    functions are safe to be used there
-   07:48 abalashov: qxork: KamailioWorks R13 you mean?
-   07:49 qxork: ;)
-   07:49 miconda: we have the fixup + fixeup_free functions, they are
    used by python/lua (oldstyle, not via kemi)
-   07:49 abalashov: miconda: I'd say let's shelve that idea for
    KamailioWorks R13 then.
-   07:49 abalashov: Not everything that can be done is worth doing just
    because it can be done. We're not OpenSIPS.
-   07:50 miconda: for example: app_python can call any module function
    doing fixup before execution, then free fixup after return
-   07:50 qxork: I truly believe that what we have is great in terms of
    performance / function
-   07:50 miconda: but I expect some of the functions don’t have the
    free fixup
-   07:50 abalashov: qxork: You mean to say ... we've Made Kamailio
    Great Again?
-   07:50 qxork: some changes must require either a loss of a call or a
    maintenance window
-   07:50 miconda: as a matter of fact, right now there is insignificant
    difference between lua (kemi) and native interpreters
-   07:50 carstenbock: :-D
-   07:51 qxork: We're going to build a great big reload. Beautiful.
-   07:51 qxork: It's going to be huuuuge.
-   07:51 miconda: as i said, what they do different is how they build
    the int/string parameter values
-   07:51 miconda: the execution of the base c functions is done the
    same
-   07:52 abalashov: qxork: Can we get Oracle to pay for it?
-   07:52 miconda: the lookup of failure/branc/onreply_route blcoks is
    very fast
-   07:52 miconda: because typically a kamailiocfg has only few of them
-   07:52 abalashov: nods
-   07:52 miconda: say 5-10 failure route blocks
-   07:52 abalashov: That's way more failure_route blocks than I ever
    had.
-   07:53 miconda: abalashov: it’s not about route blocks, but failure
    route … do you have lot more?
-   07:53 miconda: they are anyhow indexed by hash id (iirc)
-   07:53 miconda: some of the modules even do runtime lookup for
    event_routes …
-   07:54 miconda: anyhow, let’s get to a conclusion here
-   07:54 abalashov: New interpreter not needed at this time.
-   07:54 abalashov: But intriguing discussion and worth keeping in mind
    for future.
-   07:54 abalashov: That would be my interpretation.
-   07:54 qxork: agreed. new interpreter not needed at this time.
-   07:54 miconda: my approach is to have lua and python on pair if the
    most of available config functions (I mean most relevant modules)
-   07:55 abalashov: nods
-   07:55 miconda: because then it will be easier to write a kemi
    interpreter in c
-   07:55 abalashov: If someone really values reloadability that much
    ... use kemi.
-   07:55 qxork: thumbs up
-   07:55 abalashov: OH. I just remembered something ... this may not be
    the right part of the discussion for it ...
-   07:55 abalashov: But I was very surprised to discover recently that
    I can't drop replies in transaction-affiliated (TM) onreply_routes.
-   07:56 abalashov: Only in the global onreply_route.
-   07:56 abalashov: But I don't want to drop all replies, only some.
-   07:56 abalashov: This has led to the need for a complex and somewhat
    imperfect htable-based statekeeping mechanism to know for which
    Call-IDs to drop which replies.
-   07:56 miconda: other benefits I see when using lua/python/… is the
    extensive language syntax (even ignoring t their extensions/libs)
-   07:56 abalashov: Any chance this can be addressed?
-   07:57 miconda: abalashov: open an issue on tracker to discuss it
-   07:57 miconda: afaik is only the 2xx that cannot be dropped
-   07:57 abalashov: Okay. The reason I brought it up here is I wondered
    if there is some technical obstacle.
-   07:57 abalashov: Yes, that's right. But it is precisely 2xx replies
    I need to drop. :/ (It pertains to transactions for which I've
    already sent 2xx replies from Kam, and then suspended to wake up
    later...)
-   07:57 miconda: it’s open source, if something is not there, then a PR
    was not received :-)
-   07:58 miconda: I am sure it can be addressed
-   07:58 abalashov: So is there some technical reason why 2xx replies
    cannot be dropped that goes deeper than if(reply_code >= 200 &&
    reply_code \<= 299) { disallow drop for arbitrary reasons }?
-   07:58 abalashov: That was the real question.
-   07:58 miconda: eventuall with another event route pre-transaction
    status update
-   07:59 abalashov: Ah, but I want the received 2xx reply to close out
    the transaction. I just don't want to send it back to the UAC.
-   07:59 miconda: the thing to see is where the onreply route is
    executed
-   07:59 miconda: if it’s executed before updating the state of
    transaction, then should be no problem
-   07:59 miconda: but maybe right now is after
-   08:00 miconda: 3xx+ codes are easy to drop, becaue we drop anyhow
    some of them in case of serial/paralel forking
-   08:00 abalashov: I would want the 2xx reply received from UAS to
    affect transaction state, but just suppress its forwarding to the
    UAC.
-   08:01 abalashov: If there were something like an onsend_route or
    something low-level where I can just block it before it goes out on
    the transport level...
-   08:01 miconda: abalashov: isn’t that working with onsend_route for
    replies?
-   08:01 abalashov: miconda: Can I drop stuff there? And aren't those
    global, not transaction-associated?
-   08:01 miconda: I think I told you about
-   08:01 abalashov: That may be, and the fault may entirely be mine.
-   08:01 miconda: they are global
-   08:01 miconda: but you can still check avps/flags there
-   08:01 miconda: which are per transactions
-   08:02 hughw: In the cfg, there is a check to ensure you are allowed
    to call certain functions in the route type. Or the function behaves
    differently (internally) depending on which route it was called
    from.
-   08:02 hughw: Does the same check work when calling functions from
    LUA?
-   08:02 abalashov: iZverg: How would I check transaction-affiliated
    flags or AVPs there if the onsend routes for replies are not
    transaction-bound?
-   08:02 abalashov: Sorry, miconda: How would I check
    transaction-affiliated flags or AVPs there if the onsend routes for
    replies are not transaction-bound?
-   08:03 miconda: hughw: afaik, before executing a failure_route, tm
    sets the type of routing block
-   08:03 miconda: this hasn’t changed
-   08:03 miconda: instead of executing the native failure_route, it
    tells to kemi to execute a function
-   08:03 miconda: but setting the routing block type is done before,
    not changed
-   08:04 miconda: abalashov: it’s still in the context of that sip
    message
-   08:04 abalashov: miconda: OH
-   08:04 abalashov: miconda: It seems I misunderstood this.
-   08:04 hughw: (I've been away from kamailio development for a bit -
    probably should do some revision)
-   08:04 miconda: onsend_route is executed inside t_relay()
-   08:04 abalashov: miconda: That may be an elegant and simple solution
    to the problem then, will test.
-   08:04 abalashov: miconda: Oh! I thought it was global similarly to
    onreply_route global.
-   08:05 miconda: hughw: you are very welcome back! I expect you will
    like the kemi approach, afaik, you use a lot of lua with
    kamailio.cfg
-   08:07 qxork: what's next?
-   08:08 miconda: next will be restructuring the location of the code
-   08:08 miconda: I think we decided that
-   08:08 miconda: the question is if anyone knows any too/script that
    can help with that
-   08:08 miconda: we will aim at:
-   08:08 miconda: src/
-   08:08 miconda: src/core/
-   08:08 abalashov: startledmarmot: Hello!
-   08:08 miconda: src/modules/
-   08:08 miconda: src/libs/
-   08:09 miconda: the root folder should have the docs/, maybe etc/ and
    test/
-   08:09 miconda: plus a single master Makefile
-   08:09 abalashov: miconda: Would it be asinine to suggest Bash as a
    tool for this endeavour? :-D
-   08:09 miconda: all the other makefiles moved to src/
-   08:10 qxork: I think I was supposed to look at a perl script for
    this and dropped the ball
-   08:10 miconda: also in root folder have the main README and INSTALL
    …
-   08:10 miconda: so the root folder looks a bit cleaner
-   08:11 miconda: also, we will get all core related components in a
    place where is easy to spot them (i mean heare the mem, parser, …
    folders — they will be moved in the src/core/)
-   08:11 miconda: abalashov: waiting for that bash script now :-)
-   08:12 hughw: don't forget /pkg for the RPM spec files
-   08:12 miconda: well, I guess one can do it with perl. sed. awk, etc
    … I was more looking to see if anyone is aware of an existing tool
-   08:13 miconda: where one ca say: file x.h moved from . to src/core/
    — update all the exiting includes :-)
-   08:13 miconda: hughw: sure, there are several folders to be still
    kept there
-   08:14 miconda: so no one knows such tool, we will have to write one
-   08:14 miconda: or use vim+keyboard
-   08:14 miconda: next topic
-   08:14 abalashov: nods
-   08:14 abalashov: That follows well-understood UNIX src project
    structure.
-   08:14 abalashov: Do module docs stay in the modules' respective
    subdirs?
-   08:14 abalashov: Or go in docs/ ?
-   08:15 miconda: abalashov: docs for modules will stay in the same
    folder, like now
-   08:15 startledmarmot: abalashov: what's up bud!
-   08:16 miconda: back to next topic
-   08:16 miconda: anyone knowing a document format (markup language)
    for defining function prototypes
-   08:17 miconda: it may be useful to use one to be able to get the
    list of exported functions
-   08:17 miconda: not thinking only of kemi functions as I emailed a
    while ago, but this can be useful for rpc commands as well
-   08:18 abalashov: You mean something that can analyse code and
    retrieve a list of all function prototypes, despite complex
    multiline formatting and so on?
-   08:18 miconda: as osas noticed, rpc commands are not well indexed
    and documented
-   08:18 miconda: abalashov: more the other way around
-   08:18 miconda: have a spec file and then generate c code to be
    included by module
-   08:18 abalashov: Ahh. Like stubs.
-   08:18 abalashov: Can't generate implementations obviously. ;)
-   08:19 miconda: abalashov: what you say it’s done for extracting rpc
    commands
-   08:19 miconda: but requires some patches to a perl module plus a
    specific compiler mode
-   08:19 qxork: brb
-   08:19 miconda: abalashov: yep, like stubs
-   08:19 abalashov: So you're looking for something that can generate
    rpc functions consistently for all modules ... do these functions
    have a body of some kind, or just empty stubs?
-   08:19 miconda: abalashov: or only the prototypes
-   08:20 miconda: abalashov: only function prototypes and interface
    structures
-   08:20 miconda: I don’t want to go that far in defininf function
    stubs
-   08:21 abalashov: Ah.
-   08:21 carstenbock: We should add it also for PV's and
    Transformations... the Wiki-Page is not always complete.
-   08:21 osas: maybe a custom awk script?
-   08:21 miconda: something that I can use to generate c code with the
    ptototypes and the interface structures, as well as documentation
    index
-   08:21 abalashov: But what's the use in a prototype if the functions
    are not implemented? Or am I misunderstanding?
-   08:21 miconda: I don’t see it as a replacement for existing docs
-   08:22 miconda: but something that can be easily checked to see if a
    function is not documented
-   08:22 carstenbock: Got to go: My son is waiting... CU all!
-   08:22 abalashov: Ahhh.
-   08:22 miconda: carstenbock: thanks for participating, will keep in
    touch for rpms!
-   08:22 osas: I would say we should use it to generate both prototypes
    and xml docs
-   08:23 abalashov: So it does pull stuff out of existing code. The
    idea is to discover RPC functions which exist and display them in
    some format?
-   08:23 miconda: osas: maybe parts of xml docs
-   08:23 miconda: but I don’t want to have examples there
-   08:23 osas: miconda: yes :)
-   08:23 osas: only the RPC part
-   08:23 abalashov: I find system.listMethods to be pretty insightful.
    Most stuff is fairly obvious. But yes, in cases where parameters are
    required, not always.
-   08:24 eschmidbauer: is it possible to update presentity from another
    module without using DB?
-   08:24 miconda: abalashov: let me give some example
-   08:24 miconda: when adding a new function, instead of writing c code
    to define it’s prototype and add it to the module exports structure
-   08:24 abalashov: miconda: Please. :-) It seems I am a bit confused
    about the direction of the analysis.
-   08:24 miconda: just write in a spec file
-   08:25 osas: and add the actual code for it :)
-   08:25 miconda: run a tool on that spec file that will re-generate a
    .h file and a .c file
-   08:25 eschmidbauer: you know what would be awesome.... a gRPC module
-   08:25 abalashov: So where does the actual code for it come from? ")
-   08:25 abalashov: Is that in the spec file too, or is that up for you
    to write between the curly braces of the stubs?
-   08:25 miconda: it will be generated by the tool
-   08:26 miconda: the implementation will be in another c file
-   08:26 abalashov: Is that based on the theory that most RPC
    operations are really simple?
-   08:26 abalashov: Oh.
-   08:26 miconda: so the module exports will include the h file and
    only the generated structure
-   08:26 miconda: implementation will be in another c file
-   08:26 miconda: all linked at compile time
-   08:26 abalashov: But to be clear, the implementation is still up to
    you to write... you're not talking about partly generating
    implementations of any kind, just signatures?
-   08:26 miconda: so the mod exports c file will be only with exported
    structures
-   08:27 miconda: abalashov: yes
-   08:27 abalashov: cresl1n: Know of anything like this?
-   08:27 abalashov: mjordan: Or you?
-   08:27 osas: while generating the .h files, we should generate the
    includes in the xml doc file too
-   08:28 miconda: iirc, Henning Westerholt proposed something like that
    in the past
-   08:28 miconda: osas: right
-   08:28 abalashov: miconda: If nobody has any suggestions, my
    suggestion is to use a YAML input file and feed it to j2cli, which
    uses the Python "jinja" template engine, if you have any familiarity
    with it.
-   08:28 abalashov: miconda: j2cli just provides a CLI wrapper for it.
-   08:29 osas: BTW, when are we going to drop the mi interface?
-   08:29 miconda: abalashov: ok, I will look into it
-   08:29 abalashov: miconda: "jinja" is a bit of an annoying dependency
    (pyYAML etc.), but is very easy to use for something like this IMHO.
-   08:29 miconda: I wanted to get some leads
-   08:29 miconda: abalashov: it will be used only by devs, I think
    that’s ok
-   08:29 abalashov: <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/j2cli/0.3.0-0>
-   08:29 abalashov: I've been very happy with it.
-   08:29 abalashov: I got into Jinja because of SaltStack.
-   08:30 abalashov: It's just very easy ... {% for f in rpcFuncs
    %}dothings{% endfor %}
-   08:30 abalashov: YAML -
-   08:30 abalashov: rpcFuncs:
-   08:30 abalashov: - rpcCall
-   08:30 abalashov: arg1: x
-   08:30 abalashov: arg2: x
-   08:30 abalashov: You get the idea.
-   08:30 miconda: yep
-   08:30 miconda: ok, we have a lead
-   08:31 abalashov: Just really simple if you don't want to learn
    something complicated and esoteric.
-   08:31 abalashov: It's become my favourite templating tool because of
    its simplicity.
-   08:31 abalashov: It's like the opposite of m4.
-   08:31 miconda: and people got the idea, so they can email if they
    have new suggestions
-   08:31 abalashov: osas: Never!
-   08:32 miconda: abalashov osas :-)
-   08:32 miconda: regarding the mi, the main concer is getting kamctl
    on pair when using rpc
-   08:32 mjordan: abalashov: apologies, trying to catch up. What
    opinion were you soliciting? :-)
-   08:32 miconda: we have kamctl, maybe that’s a way to push further
-   08:33 abalashov: mjordan: Opinion on a tool that can take list of
    functions from a spec file --> generate function
    signatures/prototypes and source stubs for it.
-   08:33 mjordan: we use jinga2 templates
-   08:33 abalashov: mjordan: jinja2 you mean?
-   08:34 abalashov: mjordan: By coincidence, that's exactly what I was
    just suggesting above. I got into jinja because of SaltStack and
    decided it's the hammer for all my nails everywhere else too.
-   08:34 mjordan: Ah, I'm actually wrong - we used that elsewhere. For
    ARI, we use Swagger for the specification, a Python script to read
    that specification, and mustache templates to generate the C/H files
-   08:34 miconda: otherwise I am using more rpc because of better
    structured format, so not much tied to old mi
-   08:34 abalashov: mjordan:
    <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/j2cli/0.3.0-0>
-   08:34 abalashov: miconda: I've switched to rpc entirely.
-   08:35 mjordan: Really, though, something like mustache or jinja
    should be sufficient. We generate some relatively complex binding
    files from the HTTP server to the ARI logic
-   08:35 abalashov: Any particular reason you didn't go with Jinja but
    instead what sounds like a house-brand Python script?
-   08:35 miconda: mjordan: thanks, I will check those as well
-   08:36 mjordan: example of a generated file:
    <http://git.asterisk.org/gitweb/?p=asterisk/asterisk.git;a=blob;f=res/res_ari_bridges.c;h=29fb07582deb79a04e8a38a42547bd3860263b3a;hb=refs/heads/master>
-   08:37 mjordan: abalashov: yeah, we use j2cli to manipulate
    configuration files in Docker containers. Long story :-)
-   08:37 abalashov: mjordan: The world is small.
-   08:37 qxork: was hoping to go another 10 min before hearing about
    docker ;)
-   08:37 abalashov: mjordan: I didn't think anyone else thought jinja2
    was cool.
-   08:37 mjordan: abalashov: does this mean we're both hip now?
-   08:38 abalashov: qxork: Docker is dead, long live RKT.
-   08:38 abalashov: mjordan: Oh no, you actually \_use\_ Docker ...
    you're much more hip.
-   08:38 qxork: abalashov: oh my testing as fun is not cool, but your
    jinja2 is ... I see how you are. =)
-   08:38 abalashov: Testing is fun when it's miconda's patience.
-   08:39 abalashov: (for off-topic blather)
-   08:39 qxork: smiles loudly
-   08:39 miconda: abalashov: I only test (I cannot afford to have
    another server to run production)
-   08:39 miconda: :-)
-   08:40 miconda: so … let’s move to the last topic
-   08:40 qxork: production is just another form of testing
-   08:40 scv: lol
-   08:40 miconda: roadmap to 5.0
-   08:40 abalashov: qxork: Glad someone else agrees.
-   08:41 miconda: I was thinking of freezing just before Christmas
    holidays
-   08:41 miconda: or sometime in January
-   08:41 miconda: a matter of how code restructuring goes on
-   08:41 miconda: because I want to do it just before freezing
-   08:41 miconda: to have fixes still backported in an easy way
-   08:42 miconda: afterwards I will expect conflicts and not that easy
    to backport
-   08:42 miconda: after freezing, go with the ususal 1-1.5 months of
    testing
-   08:42 miconda: and release
-   08:42 miconda: not sure if we will make it with 5.0 in the next
    debian stable
-   08:43 qxork: with git, we make all distros
-   08:43 abalashov: qxork: +1
-   08:43 miconda: maybe linuxmaniac can shed more light when debian
    freezes the acceptance of new versions of packages
-   08:43 abalashov: miconda: That also implies that a next major .0
    release of something is stable. ;)
-   08:44 miconda: abalashov: besides relocating the code, won’t be any
    major changes
-   08:44 abalashov: Sorry, it's a lot easier to make funny jokes than
    to submit PRs.
-   08:44 miconda: the kemi framework proved to be really not intrusive
-   08:45 miconda: abalashov: I like to hear more jokes than seeing new
    issues opened on the tracker :-)
-   08:45 linuxmaniac: miconda: <https://wiki.debian.org/DebianStretch>
-   08:45 linuxmaniac: > 2017-01-05: "Soft" freeze (no new packages, no
    re-entry, normal migrations)
-   08:46 miconda: so all this restructureing for 5.0 will be more like
    labor work, than rocket science
-   08:46 miconda: linuxmaniac: can we be there with a 5.0.0-pre
-   08:47 miconda: and get 5.0.0 as it gets out, through the usual patch
    update?
-   08:48 linuxmaniac: not really
-   08:48 linuxmaniac: sorry
-   08:48 linuxmaniac: yes, we can
-   08:48 miconda: linuxmaniac: ok — we will see what can be done, it’s
    good to have the dates in mind
-   08:49 linuxmaniac: but we need 5.0.0-pre before that date at stretch
    already
-   08:49 linuxmaniac: no new modules
-   08:50 linuxmaniac: just normal new version
-   08:50 miconda: linuxmaniac: so some will have a busy winter holidays
    :-)
-   08:50 linuxmaniac: indeed
-   08:50 miconda: linuxmaniac: yes, that’s doable, freezing before that
    date in kamailio
-   08:51 abalashov: Unfortunately I've got to run ...
-   08:51 linuxmaniac: abalashov: la vida!
-   08:51 miconda: I haven’t seen oej around, but I guess that idea of a
    face to face meeting was dropped
-   08:51 qxork: abalashov: always a joy to see you
-   08:51 abalashov: linuxmaniac: Pura vida che!
-   08:51 miconda: abalashov: thanks, very useful input this time :-)
-   08:51 qxork: miconda: this time. ;)
-   08:51 linuxmaniac: not like normally, :-P
-   08:52 abalashov: :D
-   08:52 miconda: :-)
-   08:52 abalashov: Now I'm in pain ... have to recover. It hurts so
    much to give useful input.
-   08:52 abalashov: I'll see you next week
-   08:52 linuxmaniac: cu!
-   08:52 miconda: I think I run though all my main topics
-   08:53 miconda: if anyone has anything else to discuss … you are
    welcome to step forward
-   08:53 qxork: what additional assistance do you need?
-   08:54 qxork: aka... how else can we help?
-   08:54 miconda: qxork: two more hands won’t be bad :-)
-   08:54 miconda: and a brain :-)
-   08:55 linuxmaniac: miconda: lately I'm really busy
-   08:55 qxork: =)
-   08:55 miconda: linuxmaniac: that’s ok, get that done
-   08:55 linuxmaniac: I hope so!
-   08:56 miconda: hopefully people will get involved in helping with
    relocation of code files
-   08:56 miconda: that would be very helpful
-   08:56 miconda: should not be anything complicated
-   08:56 linuxmaniac: can we manage to arrange a remote dev metting to
    work on that?
-   08:56 miconda: just wrting some scripts, with good regexps around
-   08:57 miconda: linuxmaniac: what you think of?
-   08:57 miconda: some video conf?
-   08:57 linuxmaniac: no need at all.
-   08:57 linuxmaniac: just IRC and some pastebin
-   08:58 linuxmaniac: prepare the scripts
-   08:58 linuxmaniac: and do some tests
-   08:58 linuxmaniac: before the big change
-   08:59 qxork: I can offer a server if you want for the conf, unless
    you plan on using jitsi meet, hangouts, or something else.
-   09:00 miconda: linuxmaniac: let’s try via mailing list to see we can
    get some people interested to participate and get a date for it
-   09:00 linuxmaniac: ack
-   09:01 miconda: qxork: I guess will take us some time to setup the
    server, probably jitsi meet will do it if needed
-   09:01 miconda: we can use the time for writing the scripts
-   09:01 linuxmaniac: I can ask some for some help of any sipwise's
    perl guru
-   09:01 qxork: miconda: ack. won't drop the ball this time.
-   09:01 cresl1n: abalashov: Sorry about the delay, just got off of a
    long call. What's up?
-   09:02 qxork: cresl1n: he had to run
-   09:02 cresl1n: ic ic
-   09:03 miconda: cresl1n: I guess mjordan answered what abalashov
    wanted
-   09:04 miconda: cresl1n: which was about tools used to generate
    function signatures/stubs/interfaces from a template file
-   09:04 linuxmaniac: miconda: is anyone working on sca apart of me?
-   09:04 cresl1n: thanks miconda
-   09:05 cresl1n: are you doing well?
-   09:05 miconda: linuxmaniac: i think it was another guy in gihub
    conflicting with you :-)
-   09:05 miconda: cresl1n: all good
-   09:05 linuxmaniac: miconda: andreas asked me to implement dbonly
    mode
-   09:06 linuxmaniac: and I would say is going to be a big change
-   09:06 miconda: linuxmaniac: do you suggest that next release should
    be 6.0.0, not 5.0.0?!?!
-   09:07 linuxmaniac: hahaha
-   09:07 linuxmaniac: miconda: just asking if there is a sca maintainer
-   09:08 miconda: linuxmaniac: afaik, the initial developer changed the
    job, so no official maintainer
-   09:08 linuxmaniac: ack
-   09:08 miconda: ok — last call for new topics, otherwise we can end
    this session
-   09:09 miconda: it was longer than expected, but with very good
    outcome to move forward towards 5.0
-   09:09 miconda: especially for sync’ing — the last summer was rather
    chaotic for me, a lot of events in the family that I had to attend
    and required traveling
-   09:10 qxork: excited about the release
-   09:10 qxork: any thoughts on dates for Kamailio World?
-   09:10 linuxmaniac: miconda: great work, thank you
-   09:10 miconda: qxork: I hope to have the dates before end of
    November
-   09:11 miconda: targeting same timeframe, April-May
-   09:11 qxork: =-)
-   09:11 qxork: thank you for the great work!
-   09:11 miconda: I am waiting to see availabitly of the conferencing
    room
-   09:11 miconda: Fokus has its own one in rennovation
-   09:11 miconda: and they had another conference last week, all being
    too busy to follow my requests
-   09:12 qxork: Maybe we increase attendance (slightly) and move to
    Olympiastadion
-   09:12 miconda: :-)
-   09:13 miconda: if not hing available at a convenient time in Berlin,
    it will be in Germany anyhow
-   09:13 qxork: joran was pushing hard for their locale
-   09:13 qxork: Yeni doesn't care as long as she travels to Europe
-   09:13 miconda: it’s indeed an option, but I am also constrained by
    the co-organized
-   09:14 miconda: … co-organizers
-   09:14 miconda: qxork: we will get you to berlin, anyhow
-   09:14 miconda: it’s a must visit place for kamailio :-)
-   09:15 linuxmaniac: Alicante is a must place for kamailio :-P
-   09:15 miconda: ok … so the devel meeting session is ended — as a
    marker for minutes
