# IRC Devel Meeting - 2017-09-27

Date:

-   **Proposed: 14:00 UTC, Wednesday, Sep 27, 2017**
    -   can attend: dcm, vseva, qxork
    -   cannot attend:
-   Alternatives (add your id if you can attend)
    -   Sep 28: dcm, vseva

Time of the meeting across the world:

-   16:00 - Berlin, Germany
-   15:00 - London, UK
-   10:00 - New York, USA

Utilities:

-   [Time
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html)
-   IRC webchat: <http://webchat.freenode.net/>
-   IRC client apps:
    <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Relay_Chat#Clients>

Place:

-   **#kamailio** IRC channel on **irc.freenode.net** server

## Participants

Participation is open to anyone, just join the IRC channel if you want
to participate.

People adding notes in the agenda using abbreviations:

-   dcm - Daniel-Constantin Mierla
-   qxork - Fred Posner

## Agenda

Kamailio Development Status:

-   open issues (dcm)
-   minor releases for 4.4 and 5.0 branches (dcm)

Administration:

-   servers maintenance
-   community interaction and communication channels
-   existing/new mailing lists review (security, announce, ...)
-   admin team

Project Development

-   more cleanup
    -   remove/relocate ser packaging specs
    -   cleanup etc/ folder (basic, advanced cfgs to examples; radius
        dictionary to a module)
-   features
    -   anything relevant that is missing?
    -   priorities
-   coding style
    -   code formatting (clang format)
    -   naming for structures, types, functions, variables, ...
-   unit testing
-   documentation
    -   tutorials/cookbooks -- wiki vs mkdocs (github markdown)
    -   kemi documentation -- where to write it
-   packaging
    -   rpms via obs and varios distros
-   virtualization and containers (mailing list topic)
    -   docker images

Collaborative Projects & Events:

-   online meetings (code/docs sprints)
-   onsite meetings (devel meetings)

Kamailio 5.1 (next major release):

-   roadmap

## Minutes

-   14:56 miconda: hello everyone! we should start in about 5min ...
-   15:01 miconda: ok, ready to start here ...
-   15:02 qxork: =)
-   15:02 miconda: hope everyone had a great summer (or winter, if in
    the south parth)
-   15:03 miconda: as usual, we will follow the agenda from the wiki
-   15:03 miconda:
    <https://www.kamailio.org/wiki/devel/irc-meetings/2017b#agenda>
-   15:03 miconda: then discuss freely at the end
-   15:04 grumvalski: hi all :)
-   15:04 miconda: hello!
-   15:04 miconda: \*\*\* open issues \*\*\*
-   15:04 miconda: any issue you are aware of and not yet reported to
    bug tracker?
-   15:05 qxork: silence is golden
-   15:05 miconda: ok ;-)
-   15:05 miconda: then next to minor releases
-   15:06 miconda: my plan is to do the next in 5.0 series after
    Astricon, so it's in like 2 weeks
-   15:06 miconda: hopefully by then we will sort out some of the open
    issues from tracker
-   15:06 miconda: for 4.4 I haven't made any plan yet, but could follow
    shortly after the 5.0.x one
-   15:07 miconda: so, next topic if no other comments/proposals here
-   15:08 miconda: \*\*\* administration \*\*\*
-   15:08 grumvalski: sounds fine :)
-   15:08 grumvalski: the release plan
-   15:08 notthatdaniel: Till when will 4.4.x be supported?
-   15:08 linuxmaniac: till 5.1 is out?
-   15:08 linuxmaniac: or is 5.2?
-   15:09 miconda: notthatdaniel: like linuxmaniac said, typically few
    months after the first 5.1 release
-   15:09 miconda: linuxmaniac: 5.1
-   15:09 notthatdaniel: ack
-   15:09 linuxmaniac: ack
-   15:09 miconda: last two releases are maintained
-   15:09 miconda: it will be 5.0 and 5.1
-   15:09 miconda: back to admin
-   15:10 miconda: somehow we left open few things from irc devel
    meeting before the summer
-   15:10 miconda: like security alerts, an admin/notification team ...
-   15:11 miconda: I just wanted to refresh about it
-   15:11 linuxmaniac: I don't recall
-   15:11 miconda: we sort of discussed all about, just need to act
-   15:11 linuxmaniac: what do we have to do?
-   15:11 miconda: linuxmaniac: is it even before?!?
-   15:11 linuxmaniac: email for contact?
-   15:12 miconda: linuxmaniac: there was a proposal to make an address
    (email) where sensitive security issue to be sent
-   15:12 qxork: With it's own pgp key
-   15:12 miconda: with a (trusted) group of people behind
-   15:12 miconda: should be for incomming notifications
-   15:13 miconda: I think we can use announce mailing list managed by
    qxork now ( ;-) ) or make a new one like security-alerts
-   15:13 qxork: I'm up for it
-   15:13 miconda: to send out reports
-   15:14 linuxmaniac: security-alerts sounds nice
-   15:14 qxork: This method seems to work for gpg and ssl projects
-   15:14 linuxmaniac: is going to be empty...
-   15:14 linuxmaniac: :-)
-   15:15 miconda: then tech-admin group was created at some point, but
    somehow not used at all. this one is for internal tasks (like
    upgrading our servers on security issues with other apps, e.g., web
    server, db server, ...)
-   15:16 linuxmaniac: yes, there is no much coordination
-   15:16 linuxmaniac: you are always doing all the work
-   15:16 miconda: I and qxork do that when we can, I guess
-   15:16 grumvalski: I am available to give a hand on this
-   15:16 grumvalski: if we want to create an internal group for such
    tasks
-   15:16 miconda: linuxmaniac: is a backup for access to main server,
-   15:17 miconda: grumvalski: ok, noted, thanks to jump in, it is
    needed
-   15:17 linuxmaniac: but problem is that we don't know what has to be
    done
-   15:17 miconda: also for access to main server, the guys from
    voztelecom (that host the server) are available: Oriol and Jesus
-   15:18 miconda: linuxmaniac: we also have to define that
-   15:18 miconda: it is mainly about doing upgrades to debian systems
-   15:19 qxork: probably time to update the dist for the lod servers. I
    can do that if no objections.
-   15:19 miconda: it's not huge stuff (apart of version upgrades), I
    managed myself for main server
-   15:19 linuxmaniac: I can do that
-   15:19 miconda: but sometime I travel and if there is a serious issue
    with apache or openssh, etc. someone should do it
-   15:19 miconda: linuxmaniac: I know, but we need to coordinate all
    these, that's why I wanted to discuss
-   15:20 linuxmaniac: maybe first we have to document what we have
-   15:20 qxork: thats a good idea
-   15:21 miconda: actually, I plan to start a more detailed discussion
    on mailing list about all project management and administration, so
    we do it properly, right now is a bit foggy in this area
-   15:21 linuxmaniac: maybe trying to migrate the configuration to
    ansible can be good too
-   15:21 miconda: people do not know who to approach in some situations
-   15:21 miconda: linuxmaniac: that would be great if we can automate
-   15:21 miconda: but needs time
-   15:22 linuxmaniac: sure
-   15:22 linuxmaniac: but first we need to know what we have and what
    we want
-   15:22 linuxmaniac: I mean in terms of migrating to ansible
-   15:23 miconda: ok
-   15:23 miconda: anything new in terms of community
    interaction/communications that people would like to use?
-   15:23 miconda: maiing lists, github tools and irc are what we do for
    many years
-   15:24 qxork: they still work well
-   15:24 linuxmaniac: and I think is fine
-   15:24 linuxmaniac: do we really need anything else?
-   15:24 miconda: ok ... it can be only parts of community that want to
    use something else, I ask only in the case we can facilitate that
    (e.g., host it)
-   15:25 miconda: good then, next topic
-   15:25 miconda: \*\*\* project developent \*\*\*
-   15:25 miconda: -- repository cleanup
-   15:26 miconda: I think we can get rid of packaging specs specific
    for ser
-   15:26 miconda: nobody touched them for so long time
-   15:26 linuxmaniac: agreed
-   15:26 qxork: +!
-   15:26 miconda: eventually we can relocate in kamailio-obsolete repo
-   15:26 carsten_ng-voice: +1
-   15:27 miconda: not a cleanup per se, but many examples from
    misc/examples needs a bit of care
-   15:28 miconda: and then, some files from etc/ should be moved in
    examples
-   15:28 qxork: I'll see which ones I can work on for examples... was
    thinking the same about some tutorials
-   15:28 carsten_ng-voice: I totally agree - my examples for the IMS
    components are outdated, too.
-   15:29 miconda: from etc/ -- should the radius dictionary be moved to
    auth_radius or misc_radius ... what do you find more natural?
-   15:30 qxork: +1 for misc\_
-   15:30 miconda: then the basic and advanced (oob) cfgs should be
    moved to examples
-   15:30 grumvalski: +1
-   15:30 miconda: the sip-router cfgs probably removed
-   15:30 miconda: the question is if the basic and advanced configs
    should still be installed in etc/
-   15:31 miconda: some people told me they are confusing
-   15:31 grumvalski: agree
-   15:31 linuxmaniac: radius dictionary... auth_radius?
-   15:31 grumvalski: may we have just an etc/ directory?
-   15:31 miconda: maybe we can install them in a shared subfolder (like
    subfolder of docs)
-   15:32 miconda: radius dict -- some want auth\_ some want misc\_ ...
-   15:32 grumvalski: yes, also because they are meant to be working
    configs
-   15:32 grumvalski: not examples
-   15:32 miconda: grumvalski: the thing is that with the time, they are
    not maintained same as main kamailio.cfg
-   15:33 grumvalski: time for testing tools ;-)
-   15:33 miconda: so maybe we can have a note at the top of
    kamailio.cfg that more examples are located in /.../share/...
-   15:33 grumvalski: but I agree that not everything should go there
-   15:34 grumvalski: and maybe have maintainers for them too?
-   15:34 miconda: so eventually /etc/kamailio/ has only what is
    actually used at runtime
-   15:34 linuxmaniac: yes please
-   15:34 qxork: I like this approach
-   15:34 grumvalski: miconda: like it
-   15:35 miconda: anything else that you think we should get rid of?
-   15:35 miconda: remove or relocate to kamailio-obsolete repo
-   15:35 linuxmaniac: miconda: maybe /etc/kamailio/radius/ for the
    radius dict?
-   15:35 miconda: linuxmaniac: it is not where is going to be installed
-   15:35 miconda: it can be in /etc/kamailio/
-   15:35 miconda: but where it is in the repo and how it is installed
-   15:36 miconda: for example, tls.cfg is in tls module folder and
    installed by tls module
-   15:36 miconda: tls.cfg is installed in etc/kamailio/
-   15:36 linuxmaniac: but that belongs to both auth_radius and
    misc_radius?
-   15:36 miconda: also dispatcher.list is in /etc/kamailio/
-   15:37 miconda: linuxmaniac: when we package, both modules are in the
    same package
-   15:37 Sergey: Think tls cert ned to store in /etc/kamailio
-   15:37 Sergey: Think tls cert need to store in /etc/kamailio
-   15:38 miconda: it is indeed a bit of a shared resource, but keeping
    it in core might not be the right place, it's what I try to sort out
    here
-   15:38 miconda: Sergey: yes, tls certs are generated in
    /etc/kamailio/
-   15:39 miconda: we can discuss further about radius dictionary via
    mailing list
-   15:39 linuxmaniac: ack
-   15:39 miconda: doesn't have to be a decission here
-   15:39 miconda: was more to start the topic and see what people think
    about
-   15:40 miconda: carsten_ng-voice: it's a long flight to Astricon,
    good time to update the ims examples ;-)
-   15:40 miconda: -- missing features
-   15:40 miconda: as a next subtopic
-   15:40 miconda: is anything that you need and is not yet in kamailio?
-   15:41 qxork: not need, but would still love a b2bua module
-   15:41 miconda: (re: cleanup, to properly conclude -- whenever you
    find something obsolete or think it should be relocate outside, just
    write to sr-dev)
-   15:42 carsten_ng-voice: Travelling with Wife and Kid... :-)
-   15:42 miconda: carsten_ng-voice: then you have a good excuse that
    you need to work ;-)
-   15:43 miconda: no other feature missing?!
-   15:43 miconda: that's quite good then
-   15:43 carsten_ng-voice: I would love to use topos on an outbound
    proxy (for originating and terminating at the same time)
-   15:43 miconda: till 5.1 I have in mind 1-2 new modules
-   15:44 miconda: let's see how time is available
-   15:44 notthatdaniel: second topos wish
-   15:44 lazedo: not a feature, a devel release, that one could install
    and compile a module outside of kamailio tree and still have it load
    and run
-   15:44 miconda: carsten_ng-voice: probably it will get there, it's
    young and needs more time to keep adding stuff there
-   15:44 jchavanton: We started testing on topos recently, so far so
    good, we will do a lot more tests in the coming months
-   15:45 carsten_ng-voice: miconda: I totally understand :-)
-   15:45 carsten_ng-voice: miconda: Too many topics on the agenda right
    now....
-   15:45 miconda: jchavanton: ok, testing and feedback helps a lot
-   15:45 grumvalski: join the wish for oubound support in topos :)
-   15:46 miconda: lazedo: not sure I get it
-   15:46 miconda: lazedo: can you elaborate a bit more?
-   15:46 notthatdaniel: guess lazedo wants to load modules by specifing
    a complete path
-   15:47 miconda: notthatdaniel: you can give absolute path to a module
    pointing anywhere on the system
-   15:47 lazedo: right now, we have to build kamailio locally in order
    to test new modules
-   15:47 linuxmaniac: I would say he wants kamailio-dev package and be
    able to build from there
-   15:48 Sergey: About new feature. I not tested but dor docker need to
    set memory config using environment vars.
-   15:48 lazedo: linuxmaniac: you are correct
-   15:48 Sergey: About new feature. I not tested but for docker need to
    set memory config using environment vars.
-   15:48 miconda: lazedo: you can build packages on another system
-   15:49 miconda: linuxmaniac, lazedo: like a package only with header
    files?
-   15:49 lazedo: miconda: well, i tried it the other day to build a
    module and apply it to a running env (stop/start), but the flags did
    not correspond and the module culdn’t be loaded
-   15:50 miconda: I guess this is only about someone taking the time to
    put this in a pkg and eventualluy update some include paths or flags
    to compiler in Makefile
-   15:50 lazedo: if i had the devel release of that installation , i
    could build my module (or patch an existing one) and only update/add
    that module
-   15:50 miconda: lazedo: the version has to be the same for core and
    modules
-   15:50 lazedo: version was the same, i guess its the flags that are
    compiled
-   15:50 lazedo: haven’t dig much into this
-   15:51 miconda: lazedo: we can tune on it, just open an issue and
    give some example there, so we can analyze and see what can be done
-   15:51 linuxmaniac: asterisk has something like that
-   15:51 miconda: Sergey: we will get to pkg and docker in the next
    topics
-   15:51 linuxmaniac: there is an asterisk-dev package with everything
    you need to build a module
-   15:51 lazedo: same for freeswitch
-   15:52 lazedo: and since they loadable modules, we can even doing it
    live :)
-   15:52 lazedo: but in kamailio, due to script binding i’m not
    expecting that
-   15:53 Sergey: lazedo: looks like need kamailio config reload without
    process restart.
-   15:53 linuxmaniac: is a good idea, but I don't know what we need to
    accomplish the kamailio-dev
-   15:54 miconda: Sergey: config routing rules written in Lua, Squirrel
    and JS can be reloaded (and I think also python) without restarting
-   15:54 miconda: re -dev package, let's approach it over
    tracker/mailing lists, as lazedo comes with some details and example
-   15:55 lazedo: miconda: agreed
-   15:55 miconda: anything else? or next topic ...
-   15:55 miconda: -- conding style
-   15:56 miconda: we kind of have a gentlemen agreement that one can
    use it's own coding style, the other will try to follow when
    contributing to that part of code
-   15:56 miconda: but over the time, devs come and go
-   15:57 miconda: some components lost the maintainer and the coding
    style is different, in some cases quite odd I would say ...
-   15:57 miconda: I was wondering if we should require a specific
    conding style that we can agree on
-   15:57 miconda: clang-format is rather good at doing it
-   15:57 miconda: with that the code format will look the same
    everywhere
-   15:58 miconda: there is already a .clang-format in the root folder
    that can be used
-   15:59 miconda: I do it from time to time
-   15:59 qxork: I know that can integrate in vim... does it in other
    writers?
-   15:59 miconda: qxork: it can even be enforced via some git hooks
-   15:59 linuxmaniac: We need a common code style
-   15:59 miconda: I use clang-format from command line
-   16:00 lazedo: +1 common code style
-   16:00 linuxmaniac: We need to force it
-   16:00 linuxmaniac: enforce
-   16:00 miconda: the topic here is to see if people consider that a
    good thing and be approached via mailing list with the rest of devs,
    or they feel unconformtable and should leave it like it is now
-   16:00 miconda: ok, so nobody against it here ...
-   16:00 miconda: ... yet
-   16:01 miconda: I will prepare an email and send it over the mailing
    lists
-   16:01 linuxmaniac:
    <https://github.com/andrewseidl/githook-clang-format>
-   16:01 linuxmaniac: examples of different editors and clang-format
-   16:02 miconda: with this email I will also try to propose some rules
    for naming vars/functions/etc (mainly the ones that are exported to
    config)
-   16:02 miconda: linuxmaniac: will check it
-   16:03 miconda: next topic?!?
-   16:03 miconda: -- unit tests
-   16:03 linuxmaniac: I would say functional tests
-   16:04 miconda: approached few times in the past, not actual work on
    it, appart of Mikki who cleaned up what we had and added few new
-   16:04 miconda: linuxmaniac: more types of tests, the better ;-)
-   16:05 miconda: we need to approach this somehow, but likely it needs
    an onsite meeting to get things moved on
-   16:05 miconda: let's see what we can do in the near future
-   16:05 miconda: we'll follow up via mailing lists
-   16:06 miconda: -- documentation
-   16:06 miconda: the main one here is how to document the kemi exports
-   16:07 miconda: they follow more or less the standard cfg exports,
    but sometimes there are variants
-   16:07 miconda: shall we put them in the docbook file used now?
-   16:07 miconda: if yes, how?
-   16:07 miconda: or make new docs dedicated for them?
-   16:07 miconda: maybe doxygen?
-   16:08 miconda: for kemi exports is quite important to document the
    return codes
-   16:08 linuxmaniac: doxygen seems right, documentation in the code
-   16:09 linuxmaniac: enforcing documentation for kemi exports seems a
    nice idea
-   16:09 miconda: linuxmaniac: there is a slightly difference in the
    signature, as sip msg pointer is not given from kemi scripts, but
    that can be documented somewhere else
-   16:10 miconda: then, should other tutorials be migrated from wiki to
    markdown and kept in github?
-   16:10 miconda: I started with the installation guide, being specific
    per version
-   16:10 miconda: we discussed last time, from the perspective of
    having devs commiting in github, rather that going to an external
    wiki site
-   16:11 linuxmaniac: I think the changes to DB
-   16:12 linuxmaniac: I mean ... the upgrade from one mayor version to
    another
-   16:12 carsten_ng-voice: Got to run - CU next time!
-   16:12 miconda: linuxmaniac: right, I wanted to discuss also about
    changes to db
-   16:12 miconda: when to increase the version number or find an
    alternative
-   16:13 miconda: linuxmaniac: ok with upgrade guide
-   16:13 miconda: more stuff for mailing list ...
-   16:13 miconda: next topic ...
-   16:13 miconda: -- packaging
-   16:14 miconda: thanks to Sergey (I guess), rpm packaging gets better
    and better
-   16:14 Sergey: I suggest to use one RPM SPEC file for all RPM based
    dists
-   16:14 miconda: the question is how to keep that
-   16:15 miconda: Sergey: can obs spec be used to build rpms on a local
    system (e.g., centos 7)?
-   16:15 Sergey: I prepared OBS SEPC file with support HEL, Fedora,
    OpenSUSE dist
-   16:15 Sergey: Yes, obs may be used to build local dist. OBS macro is
    removed now
-   16:15 miconda: Sergey: yes, but I need to use that spec on OBS,
    right?
-   16:15 linuxmaniac: see pkg/kamailio/deb/backports as a reference of
    what I do in deb world
-   16:16 Sergey: No, you can use this SPEC on local PC too
-   16:16 miconda: Sergey: I would try to avoid keeping symlinks in repo
-   16:16 linuxmaniac: I mean... I use one as reference and the script
    updates the files as needed
-   16:16 linuxmaniac: and I commit them
-   16:16 miconda: we can add makefile rules to create them as needed
-   16:16 miconda: for exampe 'make deb' creates the 'debian' symlink in
    root folder pointing to pkg/kamailio/deb/...
-   16:17 miconda: the problem with symlinks is that if a spec has to be
    diverged, the object in git repo cannot be replaced (afaik)
-   16:17 Sergey: miconda we can to as you say. But what is bad in
    simlink?
-   16:18 Sergey: Ok. Accepted
-   16:18 miconda: we used to have pkg/kamailio/debian
-   16:18 miconda: then we needed to have specs for each debian version
    (the latest)
-   16:18 miconda: we couldn't reuse pkg/kamailio/debian, we had to do
    pkg/kamailio/deb/subfolder
-   16:19 miconda: I can't remeber exactly the issue
-   16:19 miconda: but if you remove a folder (file or path) and try to
    add it again, there are some issue with git objects and references
-   16:19 Sergey: RPM packaging is different than deb. Think debin
    folder cannot be used
-   16:19 linuxmaniac: and as I said, I maintain them with backports/\*
-   16:19 miconda: that is what I have in mind from that moment
-   16:20 miconda: so, as a symlink is just a shortcut that is needed
    for the time of building something, I would not store it in git
-   16:21 qxork: sorry I just caught up
-   16:21 qxork: I need to become more familiar with doxygen but am
    committed to help more with docuentation
-   16:22 Sergey: I not have big experience with git. Than i simple
    trust that is mor simple to manage git repo and prevents conflicts.
-   16:22 miconda: qxork: ok, thanks
-   16:22 Sergey: Also one more question
-   16:23 miconda: Sergey: not much of a git expert here, that's why I
    try not to put there what is not needed
-   16:23 skrusty: can someone tell me what the lifetime of $var is
    please? I am setting a $var in accounting, but getting values that
    are from other calls (it would seem). Just trying to understand in
    what context that value would persist.
-   16:23 Sergey: We also can simple package kamailio for Oracle linux.
    But this dist not provided by OBS. May be also package using other
    staff?
-   16:24 skrusty: oh sorry, didn't realise it was dev meeting
-   16:24 andrew_p: skrusty: it's set per lifetime of kamailio child
    serving the request...
-   16:25 linuxmaniac: Sergey: I don't get the question
-   16:25 miconda: Sergey: I propose to have obs folder as now, then for
    each distro supported by obs, have own folder with a README giving
    instructions how to build it
-   16:25 skrusty: andrew_p: thanks
-   16:26 miconda: Sergey: and also a Makefile to create subfolders for
    each OS version
-   16:26 miconda: Sergey: I can probably add something in the next days
    as an example
-   16:27 Sergey: miconda understand.
-   16:28 miconda: Sergey: really appreciating your efforts here, it's
    been a long time when rpm specs were not properly maintained
-   16:28 miconda: so we do need a cleanup
-   16:29 Sergey: I can simple remove not supported dists like fedora
    18, 19
-   16:29 miconda: remove old stuff that I typically just increase
    version number, but they were not maintained, just kept in case
    someone will pick up
-   16:30 miconda: Sergey: ok, let's first get an agreement on how to
    link everything with obs, then remove what's old/not needed
-   16:30 Sergey: Also CentOS SPEC. How about this also remove and
    create REAME how to build?
-   16:30 miconda: will continue via email or tracker on github
-   16:30 miconda: -- virualization and/or containers
-   16:30 miconda: as next topic
-   16:31 miconda: also from Sergey, a docket container file
-   16:31 miconda: linuxmaniac does already some stuff with docker for
    travis-ci
-   16:31 Sergey: I also packaged and suggest to publish this on docker
    hub
-   16:31 miconda: how should we structure that?
-   16:32 miconda: linuxmaniac: can we make a new sub-project on doker
    hub?
-   16:32 miconda: I think yiou have one dedicated for travis
-   16:33 linuxmaniac: We can create kamailio/kamailio
-   16:33 miconda: onther question in this topic: do you think preparing
    some vm images will help?
-   16:33 miconda: linuxmaniac: should it be also with os name
-   16:33 miconda: like kamailio/kamailio-debian
-   16:33 lazedo: oops, this topic reminded me of a feature
    question/wish, are we already able to use environment variables in
    kamailio config script ?
-   16:34 linuxmaniac: uhm... not sure about that
-   16:34 miconda: lazedo: someone added that feature, iirc
-   16:34 lazedo: the docker images for travis aet awesome for making
    builds, wanted to thank you linuxmaniac :)
-   16:34 Sergey: This easily resolve as tags like
    kamailio/kamailio:debian or kamailio/kamailio:alpine
-   16:34 linuxmaniac: lazedo: thanks!
-   16:34 miconda: lazedo: as a pv, not as a predefine replacemet
-   16:34 miconda: lazedo:
    <https://www.kamailio.org/wiki/cookbooks/devel/pseudovariables#env_name_-_environment_variables>
-   16:35 linuxmaniac: we need to think about versions too
-   16:35 lazedo: miconda: ah, that was i was looking for (replacement).
    tks
-   16:35 miconda: lazedo: you can use -A to replace a define in config
-   16:36 lazedo: miconda: looks interesting, looking into that. tks
    again
-   16:37 Sergey: How about kamailio on docker hub? We crating this
-   16:37 miconda: lazedo: iirc: kamailio -A DBHOST='localhost' to
    relplace DBHOST with localhost all over config
-   16:37 miconda: Sergey: yes, the question is about naming the repo
-   16:37 miconda: should it be like: kamailio/kamailio-debian
-   16:38 Sergey: i suggest simple kamailio/kamailio
-   16:38 miconda: or: kamailio/kamailio-debian-wheezy
-   16:38 miconda: Sergey: but for kamailio/kamailio, can we host many
    OS under the same?
-   16:38 qxork: +1 for dist-version
-   16:38 Sergey: Please look this <https://hub.docker.com/_/rabbitmq/>
-   16:39 miconda: miconda: I am not familiar with docker, I just ask
    questions coming in my mind based on past experience with similar
    stuff
-   16:39 lazedo: kamailio/kamailio (choose a dist), then provide other
    dist kamailio/kamailio:stretch , ...
-   16:39 Sergey: one one place you can see all version. Tags is
    designed for this
-   16:39 miconda: Sergey: I am fine with it, then
-   16:39 lazedo: Tags is the way to go
-   16:39 qxork: nice
-   16:40 miconda: anything else left here?
-   16:40 miconda: still the question about if vm images will help the
    community somehow
-   16:40 miconda: I do install from sources or debs, and that works
    fine and fast for me
-   16:40 linuxmaniac: wait
-   16:40 miconda: so just asking ...
-   16:41 linuxmaniac: the docker naming thing needs to be discussed
-   16:41 Sergey: Docker containers isconfigred using environment vars.
    Need to configure kamailio memory using vars
-   16:41 qxork: if we're going to do vm, are we going to fight over
    which OS?
-   16:41 Sergey: with out keys
-   16:41 linuxmaniac: I propose a new repo for the docker files
-   16:42 linuxmaniac: so there we can keep the different files needed
    for dockerhub
-   16:42 lazedo: agree with linuxmaniac
-   16:42 miconda: Sergey: does not work with command line params? -m
    $SHMSIZE -M $PKGSIZE
-   16:42 Sergey: no is bad. If dockerfiles located in main repo then on
    each update on main repo docker hub automticali rebuild required
    imags.
-   16:43 miconda: linuxmaniac: you propose like kamailio-docker on
    github.com/kamailio ?
-   16:43 Sergey: Es example when you make commit to master verions then
    you alwais have latest kamailio:master
-   16:43 linuxmaniac: I don't plan to have kamilio:master
-   16:43 Sergey: Or kamailio:5.1 or kamailio:5.1.0
-   16:43 linuxmaniac: more like kamailio5.1:stretch
-   16:43 Sergey: master is tag.
-   16:44 Sergey: not repo
-   16:44 linuxmaniac: kamailio5.1:alphine
-   16:44 linuxmaniac: not really sure about the underlying distrubution
-   16:45 linuxmaniac: in docker it doesn't matter
-   16:46 lazedo: but if one wants to extend the existing images, he can
    choose the base thhat best suits him
-   16:46 miconda: Sergey, linuxmaniac - maybe you can agree in between
    you with naming, then email or add on github tracker for an overall
    opinion and then go ahead
-   16:46 linuxmaniac: if we decide to use debian as base
    distribution... is quite simple to provide a docker with our own
    debs
-   16:46 Sergey: miconda: to pass keys -m and -M need to use
    entrypoin.sh script I want to remove this
-   16:46 eloycoto: lHello! I think that the best way to organize is
    like python <https://hub.docker.com/_/python/>
-   16:47 linuxmaniac: eloycoto: great thanks
-   16:48 eloycoto: ping me if you need help ;-)
-   16:48 Sergey: all official docker images is have version and dist in
    tags. I suggest do to same way
-   16:50 miconda: so we have a team here: eloycoto, lazedo, linuxmaniac
    and Sergey
-   16:50 linuxmaniac: <https://hub.docker.com/r/library/python/tags/>
-   16:50 linuxmaniac: so 5.0-stretch 5.1-alpine
-   16:50 miconda: you can try to find something that works the best for
    everyone, for me it's all ok
-   16:51 miconda: anything else to be discussed?
-   16:51 miconda: if not, next topic
-   16:51 Sergey: linuxmaniac accepted
-   16:51 miconda: collaborative projects/events
-   16:52 Sergey: miconda: to pass keys -m and -M need to use
    entrypoin.sh script I want to remove this
-   16:52 miconda: Sergey: I will try to see what implies and then
    follow up
-   16:52 miconda: maybe you open an issue on tracker just not to forget
    about
-   16:52 Sergey: Ok
-   16:53 miconda: back to collaboration -- also from last irc devel
    meeting ... a proposal to try to have some online sessions for
    working on some stuff
-   16:53 miconda: like docs migrations
-   16:54 miconda: it didn't happen so far, summer holidays, but we can
    look at doing one for a test and see who joins
-   16:54 miconda: then, it was also about having a developeres meeting
    in person for 2-3 days
-   16:54 linuxmaniac: just propose a date for the on-line session
-   16:55 linuxmaniac: or dates
-   16:55 linuxmaniac: like you do for IRC meetings
-   16:55 miconda: linuxmaniac: I will try to do it soon
-   16:55 miconda: need also to propose the topic of work
-   16:56 miconda: for onsite meeting, Olle was interested, but he is
    not here ...
-   16:57 miconda: if there is interest, our friends at sipgate in
    Dusseldorf can host, I can arrange something for Berlin, maybe
    others can do it at other locations, but first we have to see if
    there is interest
-   16:57 miconda: one will have to conver traveling/accommodation costs
-   16:57 miconda: s/conver/cover/
-   16:58 linuxmaniac: I think that would be really nice
-   16:58 miconda: I would say we need 5-6 people that want, to just
    start planning it
-   16:58 linuxmaniac: count with me
-   16:58 miconda: linuxmaniac: ok
-   16:58 miconda: I will ping other devs that are not here today and
    see
-   16:58 qxork: this is for dev, right?
-   16:58 eloycoto: miconda, I think that Fosdem can host pre/post
    events for communities
-   16:58 miconda: likely cannot be done before end of noveber or so
-   16:58 miconda: eloycoto: that's an idea, too
-   17:00 miconda: eloycoto: the only issue with fosdem is that people
    are in mood for beer at that event ;-)
-   17:00 miconda: let's see what comes up after discussing with other
    devs not here now
-   17:00 miconda: I and linuxmaniac are counted
-   17:01 miconda: qxork: not only for devs, but for dev related work
    (e.g., write docs)
-   17:01 grumvalski: coun also on me for a live meeting
-   17:01 qxork: ack
-   17:01 miconda: qxork: I mean, not an event to share how to use
    kamailio, but an event for working on stuff (code, docs,
    administration, ...)
-   17:01 miconda: grumvalski: ok
-   17:02 miconda: two hours already ... long agenda this time ;-)
-   17:02 lazedo: not commiting but, i have interest in such meeting
-   17:02 miconda: lazedo: ok -- Lisbon is not a bad place to do it ;-)
-   17:03 grumvalski: +1
-   17:03 miconda: to finish the (written) agenda, last topic
-   17:03 miconda: -- roadmap to 5.1
-   17:04 miconda: proposed via mailing list few days ago:
-   17:04 miconda: - Mon, Oct 16, 2017 - freeze the development
-   17:04 miconda: - in 3-4 weeks after that, create the branch 5.1
-   17:04 miconda: - 2-3 weeks after, do the release of v5.1.0
-   17:05 miconda: anyone working on something that wants in 5.1 and not
    time for it according to above timelines?
-   17:05 qxork: works for me
-   17:05 grumvalski: fine for me
-   17:05 miconda: ok
-   17:06 miconda: then new topics, if you want to discuss
-   17:06 miconda: or just free discussions
-   17:07 qxork: I'm already looking forward to KamailioWorld 2018
-   17:07 miconda: I'll see some of you at Astricon ... qxork, carsten,
    torrey, ...
-   17:07 grumvalski: I've thinking since a while in a zmq module :)
-   17:07 miconda: qxork: hopefully we will be able to sort out the
    dates very soon
-   17:07 qxork: nice!
-   17:08 miconda: btw, any events in your area that you know it worth
    going and presenting about kamailio?
-   17:08 qxork: I'm hoping to add something to ITEXPO this year
-   17:08 miconda: if anyone does it (e.g., local group meetups), we can
    post a news about and store the slides for later view on
    kamailio.org
-   17:09 miconda: qxork: great! it can be also smaller events, like
    those organized via meetup.com
-   17:10 miconda: I tried also to go to some univeristies or institues
    when they have events about RTC or open source
-   17:10 linuxmaniac: have to go, see you later!
-   17:10 miconda: I would like to see more of the people in community
    doing it
-   17:11 miconda: linuxmaniac: thanks a lot, have a great evening!
-   17:11 grumvalski: linuxmaniac: hasta pronto!
-   17:11 qxork: take care linuxmaniac!
-   17:14 miconda: ok, then all finished for devel meeting!
-   17:14 miconda: thanks everyone!
-   17:14 lazedo: thank you for bringing this up miconda
-   17:14 qxork: thank you @miconda
-   17:14 grumvalski: thank you!
-   17:14 miconda: welcome!
-   17:14 notthatdaniel: thanks for the info and goodbye
-   17:15 miconda: bye!
-   17:16 jchavanton: good spirit guys ! have a nice day
-   17:17 miconda: jchavanton: thanks! do not forget about the issue you
    opened with processes, I asked more details there
-   17:18 jchavanton: sorry I was not notified automaticaly, I will
    follow up
