# Online IRC Devel Meeting - 2020-11-25

**Note: *because freenode.net IRC service is now requiring user
registration, this time the online meeting is planned to be hosted on a
Matrix room where we can grant guest access and people can join via web
browser. See more details below.***

Date:

- **Proposed: 15:00 UTC, Wednesday, Nov 25, 2020**
  - can attend: dcm, vseva, fposner, ...
  - cannot attend:

Time of the meeting across the world:

- 16:00 - Berlin, Germany
- 15:00 - London, UK
- 10:00 - New York, USA
- 07:00 - Seattle, USA

**Place:**

- Matrix chat room: **#kamailio:matrix.kamailio.dev**
  - [https://riot.kamailio.dev/#/room/#kamailio:matrix.kamailio.dev](https://riot.kamailio.dev/#/room/#kamailio:matrix.kamailio.dev)
- To join as a guest:
  - go to: <https://riot.kamailio.dev/#/welcome>
  - click on **Room Directory**
  - then click on **kamailio** room to join it

*Backup place:*

- IRC channel: **#kamailio** on **irc.freenode.net** server

Utilities:

- [Time
    Converter](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html)
- Matrix resources
  - website: <https://matrix.org/>
    - it allows public registrations for getting a Matrix user
            account
  - client applications: <https://matrix.org/clients>
  - unofficial list of other public matrix servers:
        <https://www.anchel.nl/matrix-publiclist/>
- IRC resources
  - IRC webchat: <http://webchat.freenode.net/>
  - IRC client apps:
        <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Relay_Chat#Clients>

## Participants

Participation is open to anyone, just join the IRC channel if you want
to participate.

People adding notes in the agenda using abbreviations:

- dcm - Daniel-Constantin Mierla
- vseva - Victor Seva

## Agenda

Kamailio Development Status:

- open issues (dcm)
- minor releases for 5.3 and 5.4 branches (dcm)
- tracker issues review, e.g.,:
  - <https://github.com/kamailio/kamailio/issues/969>
- packaging: secsipid, kamcli
- debs repo with many versions

Administration:

- servers maintenance
- community interaction and communication channels
- existing mailing lists review

Kamailio 5.5 (next major release):

- LREPRoxy module (Mojtaba)
- roadmap
- features
  - anything relevant that is missing?
  - priorities

Documentation:

- tutorials/cookbooks -- wiki vs mkdocs (github markdown)

Collaborative Projects:

- unit testing, documentation, etc.
- community announcements

## Transcript

All times in UTC (2020-11-25)

15:01:12 **@miconda** Hello! Starting in 5min, so more can join if they
are a bit late.
15:07:03 **@miconda** ok, we should start
15:07:14 **@joelsdc1** :wave:
15:07:44 **@miconda** link to wiki with agenda:
https:*www.kamailio.org/wiki/devel/irc-meetings/2020b
15:08:25 **@miconda** first, as usual, major or minor issues with
Kamailio
15:08:43 **@miconda** anything not reported yet on bug tracker that
should be announced here?
15:08:52 **@khorsmann** hi all
15:09:22 **@miconda** \* Hello! Starting in 5min, so more can join if
they are a bit late.
15:09:41 **@vseva** <https://github.com/kamailio/kamailio/issues/2560>
?
15:10:23 **@vseva** I'm lost with this TLS
15:16:17 **@miconda** hmm, strange!
15:11:21 **@jchavanton** I think we should log the version of TLS used
15:11:54 **@miconda** I somehow missed it today, but it doesn't provide
all logs
15:11:55 **@jchavanton** in the module init
15:12:40 **@miconda** last week I installed 2 webrtc-sip gateways with
kamailio 5.4 on buster, with tls using let's encrypt certs and all was
fine
15:12:52 **@miconda** tested with tryit jssip
15:13:20 **@miconda** Julien Chavanton: we can add more logs, sure, feel
free to make PRs with what you want to add
15:14:18 **@henning** we are using kamailio 5.4 with TLS in many cases,
no crashes and such
15:14:22 **@henning** on buster
15:16:08 **@fred** I'm not sure if that bug is related to an AWS build
15:16:47 **@miconda** we have to ask for more details, at least all logs
printed from start up
15:17:02 **@miconda** and eventually a minimal config to reproduce
15:17:23 **@miconda** can just be an error with some modparam or even
other module, because the tls logs are from shut down callback
15:17:32 **@miconda** is not showing any error related to tls itself
15:18:02 **@miconda** could be the well-known conflict with other libs
already initializing the libssl
15:19:45 **@miconda** ok ... anything else?
15:20:43 **@miconda** if not, we can continue to the open issues, maybe
we can review some of the old ones and decide what to do, before
planning next minor releases
15:21:10 **@miconda** I linked the issues opened by oej (iirc) a while
ago, related to packaging
15:21:53 **@miconda** but I understood from @vseva is not easy to change
from version to version, at least for debian, because it requires the
whole process to add new packages
15:22:14 **@miconda** I refer to
https:*github.com/kamailio/kamailio/issues/969
15:22:26 **@oej** That's an old issue...
15:23:08 **@vseva** it's fine for me just that we will have to wait in
the NEW queue for a while, but that can be achieved on next version
15:23:21 **@miconda** indeed, iirc, we started the discussion about it
at a FOSDEM
15:23:26 **@vseva** stable is almost on freeze already
15:23:51 **@vseva** \* stable is almost on freeze already
15:23:53 **@miconda** I am fine with the current state
15:24:07 **@miconda** just discussing here to see what should be done
15:24:29 **@miconda** to get rid of very old issues there
15:26:32 **@miconda** so maybe we can just close this one and when one
wants to refactor the packaging, then just make a pr, or start a new
discussion with a proposal
15:27:18 **@oej** right
15:28:04 **@miconda** then I hope to get some time to see what can be
done for dnssec
15:29:00 **@miconda** using the libdnsval was straightforwards, having
drop in functions for the usual ones -- I mean about:
https:*github.com/kamailio/kamailio/issues/851
15:29:34 **@miconda** I looked a bit at other dnssec libs, but didn't
find drop in functions, so likely needs writing some wrappers
15:29:48 **@miconda** so far I didn't get any request for dnssec
15:30:01 **@miconda** thus I was never pressured to do something
15:30:43 **@miconda** on the other hand, besides being removed from
debian, libdnsval still got some updates lately, so doesn't seem to be
completely abandoned
15:31:23 **@miconda** saying just in case one needs it now, should be
able compile the module from sources
15:33:00 **@miconda** then looking at the last page of issues, Víctor
Seva is going to be a bit busy checking what is still good to keep there
:-) : https:*github.com/kamailio/kamailio/issues?page=3
15:33:28 **@henning** hehe
15:34:34 **@miconda** nothing really critical, just soft reminder to
review very old issues to see what is still actual
15:34:34 **@vseva** well, this one
<https://github.com/kamailio/kamailio/issues/668> is to be decided
here
15:35:00 **@miconda** I think we do really good with number of open
issues, most of them are requests for new features/enhancements anyhow
15:35:28 **@henning** we are really good with the number, think the
same
15:36:50 **@miconda** Víctor Seva: yeah, with the wiki we should also
decide what to do
15:37:06 **@miconda** we disabled write access after registration, due
to spammers
15:37:31 **@miconda** so issue 668 can stay open till then
15:38:24 **@miconda** I was referring to the issues that you opened
targeting more or less yourself -- eg., related to cfgt, sca, dialplan,
...
15:38:42 **@miconda** \* I was referring to the issues that you opened
targeting more or less yourself -- eg.g, related to cfgt, sca, dialplan,
...
15:38:48 **@miconda** \* I was referring to the issues that you opened
targeting more or less yourself -- eg., related to cfgt, sca, dialplan,
...
15:39:14 **@miconda** but again, nothing critical at all, just a soft
reminder ...
15:39:50 **@miconda** they can just stay there ... until we reach the
capacity of the tracker ;-)
15:40:22 **@miconda** next topic then ...
15:40:34 **@miconda** minor releases --
15:41:32 **@miconda** for 5.4, probably sometime next week (2nd part) or
the week afterwards would be a good target
15:42:10 **@miconda** for 5.3, Henning Westerholt plans to take over
this series
15:42:33 **@miconda** if Henning is busy, I can do it after the next in
5.4.x
15:43:05 **@henning** miconda: i will do it
15:43:06 **@miconda** 5.3.x needs to be checked and see if there are
relevant fixes there
15:43:12 **@henning** as we discussed
15:43:21 **@miconda** the last 5.3.x was not that long ago
15:43:50 **@henning** i was thinking maybe doing either before or after
christmas, 5.3 release
15:44:20 **@miconda** Henning Westerholt: sure, appreciated! just saying
because it can happen that you become busy, so others can take over
temporarily
15:44:48 **@miconda** fine with me the plan for 5.3.x
15:45:24 **@miconda** for Debian we have nightly builds, so that's
always good to get fixes quickly
15:45:37 **@miconda** I do not remember if the new rpm repo does nightly
for stable branches
15:45:55 **@miconda** not sure if sergey is here now to confirm ...
15:46:07 **@miconda** or maybe someone that uses the rpm repo
15:46:53 **@miconda** even when I plan to go with repos, I end up
quickly switching to sources, usually needing to cherry pick some
feature from master ...
15:47:05 **@miconda** so I haven't paid much attention to packaging
15:47:51 **@miconda** anything else on minor releases?!?
15:48:16 **@miconda** if not, then next topic: packaging
15:48:41 **@miconda** I think Víctor Seva is packaging already
\`kamcli\`
15:48:54 **@miconda** am I right, Victor?
15:49:03 **@vseva** kamcli is already in Debian
15:49:16 **@vseva** https:*packages.debian.org/search?keywords=kamcli
15:49:22 **@miconda** in Debian distro, or Debian repo on
kamailio.org?
15:49:30 **@miconda** ohh, nice, thanks!
15:49:40 **@henning** is kamcli this a "suggest" for the packages as
well? its no dependency
15:50:10 **@vseva** \> \<@miconda:matrix.kamailio.dev> in Debian distro,
or Debian repo on kamailio.org?
15:50:15 **@miconda** Víctor Seva: is kamcli also on deb.kamailio.org
repo? like nightly build?
15:50:22 **@miconda** :-)
15:50:33 **@miconda** you read my questions ahead :-)
15:50:42 **@vseva** :-)
15:51:01 **@oej** While discussing packaging
15:51:04 **@oej** can we discuss
https:*github.com/sipwise/kamailio-deb-jenkins/issues/9
15:51:08 **@vseva** We discuss to add ubuntu latest version I think
15:51:32 **@oej** I am a bit worried over old versions being deleted
15:51:51 **@vseva** well, yes I would like to have aptly instead of
reprepro
15:52:08 **@miconda** the other one I would like to get packaged somehow
is libsecsipid ... I have to buy a cerveza for Victor
15:52:14 **@vseva** but old versions are not removed... they are not in
the repo
15:52:26 **@oej** just on cerveza?
15:52:28 **@oej** one
15:52:32 **@jsmith** miconda: I've already been working on an RPM for
libsecsipid
15:52:39 **@miconda** libsecsipid is for the STIR/SHAKEN module, in USA
things move forward with it and some carriers deploy it
15:52:52 **@vseva** now I'm on diet, no alcohol for me :-(
15:53:04 **@apogrebennyk** Víctor Seva: you? what happened? =)
15:53:13 **@apogrebennyk** sorry for OT.
15:53:17 **@miconda** Jared Smith: nice, thanks! you can make a PR with
the specs and then @sergey can add it to our rpm building process
15:53:18 **@vseva** :-)
15:53:33 **@vseva** apogrebennyk: nice to see you!
15:53:40 **@apogrebennyk** Víctor Seva: same :)
15:53:42 **@jsmith** miconda: Will do, once it's done and tested :-)
15:54:30 **@vseva** \> \<@miconda:matrix.kamailio.dev> the other one I
would like to get packaged somehow is libsecsipid ... I have to buy a
cerveza for Victor
15:54:37 **@miconda** libsecsipid requires golang to build, but then no
other fancy dependencies
15:54:59 **@vseva** packaging golang is not fun at all
15:55:12 **@vseva** \* packaging golang is not fun at all
15:55:16 **@miconda** no need to package golang
15:55:36 **@vseva** I mean golang programs
15:55:38 **@miconda** just install golang from debian repo, to build
libsecsipid.a and libsecsipid.so, and that's it
15:56:02 **@miconda** it doesn't create package dependency
15:56:17 **@miconda** so installing libsecsipid from deb won't require
to install golang
15:56:18 **@vseva** no external dependences?
15:56:29 **@miconda** golang is only build dependency
15:56:39 **@vseva** then it's easier
15:56:43 **@miconda** no, everything is bundled in a file
15:56:51 **@miconda** it is golang, not Node.js :-)
15:57:10 **@miconda** \* it is golang, not Node.js :-)
15:57:10 **@vseva** well is about dependences to build
15:57:45 **@vseva** but if we don't have any... I will try to take a
look
15:58:28 **@miconda** you only need golang package (the compiler),
afaik
15:58:48 **@miconda** haven't done it recently, because I installed it
long time ago and now just doing usual updates
15:58:59 **@miconda** but it was easy
15:59:08 **@miconda** some environment variables need to be set
15:59:26 **@miconda** we can discuss between us when you have some time
and I can give hints
16:00:01 **@matt44w** and now with go.mod it is easier
16:00:34 **@miconda** didn't get to use complex stuff like go.mod :-)
16:00:48 **@vseva** I have some experience with golang due to cgrates
16:01:04 **@miconda** libsecsipid uses only an external package to
generate UUID, which go gets it automatically
16:01:42 **@vseva** then you have an external dependence!! 🤣
16:01:58 **@henning** lol
16:02:04 **@vseva** build on debian is done without network
16:02:26 **@vseva** all dependencies had to be packaged
16:03:08 **@miconda** ok, then we need to look into it
16:03:21 **@miconda** we will do it when we have some time
16:04:01 **@miconda** next topic related to packaging was @oej already
pointed above
16:04:12 **@miconda** keeping old versions
16:04:18 **@miconda** and Víctor Seva replied
16:04:33 **@miconda** not sure if anything else needs to be added
16:05:04 **@miconda** iirc, from last devel meeting in Dusseldorf, the
rpm repo should keep many versions
16:05:36 **@miconda** sergey seems to be offline, so cannot confirm
16:05:48 **@henning** the rpm one has old versions
16:05:55 **@henning** \* the rpm has old versions
16:06:02 **@henning** \* the rpm one has old versions
16:07:02 **@vseva** any problems with travis-ci do we need to move to
github actions?
16:08:40 **@miconda** I have no experience with github actions
16:09:02 **@miconda** if they are considered better and if someone wants
to switch to, I am fine
16:09:49 **@miconda** I think with travis-ci sometimes the notifications
on failed builds are not coming to mailing list
16:09:57 **@oej** Is there a reason to leave Travis-ci?
16:10:08 **@miconda** haven't really watched closely, but somehow I got
that feeling over the time
16:10:27 **@miconda** but no other complain from my side
16:10:34 **@henning** we might want to not move anything to github
16:10:42 **@miconda** and again, it may not be even true
16:10:59 **@vseva**
https:*www.jeffgeerling.com/blog/2020/travis-cis-new-pricing-plan-threw-wrench-my-open-source-works
16:11:45 **@vseva** everything related to travis-ci is related to tests
so not essential
16:12:11 **@vseva** \> \<@henning:matrix.kamailio.dev> we might want to
not move anything to github
16:13:18 **@mojtaba** 8;\]
16:13:20 **@miconda** Víctor Seva: so they (travis-ci) are going to
discontinue the free service for open source by end of year? or I didn't
get right that blog post on a quick read?
16:13:37 **@henning** had not heard from it as well before
16:14:09 **@miconda** in the blog post: December 31, 2020: Travis-ci.org
will be put into read-only mode.
16:14:26 **@miconda** so maybe existing repos still go on, but if so,
likely not for long time
16:15:31 **@vseva**
https:*blog.travis-ci.com/2020-11-02-travis-ci-new-billing
16:16:27 **@vseva** \> We will be offering an allotment of OSS minutes
that will be reviewed and allocated on a case by case basis. Should you
want to apply for these credits please open a request with Travis CI
support stating that you’d like to be considered for the OSS
allotment.
16:16:51 **@henning** \<ironic>great
16:17:16 **@miconda** ok, so we may have to look at github actions ...
16:17:18 **@miconda** soon
16:17:38 **@oej** Maybe ask for "OSS minutes" while preparing the move
16:18:59 **@miconda** travis-ci made me a bit lazier over the time,
pushing small changes without compiling, then waiting for notification
of failed to build, ... :-)
16:19:16 **@miconda** now have to work more again ...
16:19:28 **@miconda** :-)
16:20:35 **@jchavanton** 1000 minutes, the CI seems great in terms of
coverage but is taking a long time to run
16:21:03 **@jchavanton** Does it mean we need to use the WIP tag (to
skip CI) until we are sure
16:21:05 **@miconda** so 1000min means compiling the first 10 modules
:-)
16:21:50 **@miconda** ok, we will see what happens and what we can do
...
16:22:18 **@miconda** ultimately we can use some docker to do builds on
out server for a few distros
16:22:48 **@miconda** if nothing to be added, we can move to next
topic
16:23:13 **@miconda** - administration -
16:23:30 **@miconda** this is just rolling over in every agenda
16:23:55 **@miconda** kamailio.org runs last debian stable, so nothing
important to be done soon for it
16:24:24 **@miconda** the usual kernel updates from time to time, with
very short downtime
16:25:07 **@miconda** then I think we are doing fine with mailing lists,
this matrix group and the old irc ...
16:25:29 **@miconda** but you can always propose new (online/offline)
tools to use
16:25:46 **@henning** the day to day maintenance of www.kamailio.org is
going fine, i usually do it once a week for some minutes
16:26:08 **@henning** we have some time left until the next debian
upgrade is necessary ;)
16:26:50 **@miconda** ok -- seems all good on this one
16:27:07 **@miconda** next topic
16:27:14 **@miconda** next major release
16:28:00 **@miconda** in terms of timing, likely end of spring, as I can
see it now
16:28:10 **@miconda** or at least 2nd part spring 2021
16:28:26 **@miconda** quite a bunch of new features in existing
components
16:28:41 **@henning** you pushed some modules today
16:28:45 **@henning** great work at 16:28:54 **@henning** thank you
16:28:54 **@miconda** 1 module
16:29:22 **@miconda** which is going towards what we discussed for
Kamailio 6.0 in Dusseldorf last year
16:29:46 **@jchavanton** \> \<@miconda:matrix.kamailio.dev> 1 module
16:29:53 **@miconda** having a group of processes that can handle the
SIP traffic, no matter what is the transport they come in
16:30:09 **@miconda** but is a hybrid solution for now
16:30:25 **@joelsdc1** \> \<@miconda:matrix.kamailio.dev> ok, so we may
have to look at github actions ...
16:30:27 **@miconda** obviously, still WIP, today only the skeleton
16:31:03 **@miconda** the current design should work for UDP, likely for
TCP, hoping for TLS ;-)
16:31:18 **@henning** @miconda about the work distribution topic, do you
think a module might be ultimately the way to go forward, or we might
need to extend the core in this regards
16:31:44 **@miconda** it still needs the usual SIP receive workers, but
only to read from sockets, then push in internal queues
16:32:14 **@miconda** Joel Serrano: you are more than welcome to join
and help with GH actions
16:32:39 **@miconda** Henning Westerholt: the module is just a wrapper
to the core framework, for config functions
16:33:47 **@miconda** so right now is like: request received as usual by
a sip worker, and then passed to a group of "independent" workers, using
in memory sockets for immediate reaction
16:34:08 **@miconda** and from there goes again to request_route for
usual processing
16:34:33 **@miconda** but I will have to a sort of pre-routing event
route to decide this kind of delegation for processing
16:35:00 **@miconda** to avoid executing twice some internal callback
for pre/post-config processing
16:35:24 **@miconda** I will send more details when it gets to a better
shape
16:36:42 **@miconda** it reuses the code from core related to async task
processing, but no longer creates and suspends the transaction ...
passes the request as it is received and the sip receiver can read the
next one, then it can pass to another group
16:37:25 **@miconda** this is the first stage not to be very intrusive
and change radically exiting design, to avoid the need to change code in
modules
16:38:17 **@miconda** iirc, Federico Cabiddu started the topic in
Dusseldorf last year
16:38:44 **@miconda** we planned to do some coding this year, but
obviously some virus didn't want us meet again this autum :-)
16:39:51 **@federico** sounds very good :)
16:39:55 **@miconda** the version from today lacks ability to define
groups of worker processes, to be added next
16:40:02 **@oej** Sounds cool
16:40:50 **@miconda** expect more details on mailing list next week, or
so
16:41:06 **@miconda** I wanted to show today that work started :-)
16:41:30 **@henning** great
16:41:59 **@miconda** then, before presenting what other modules I
consider for next release, let's hear about LREPRoxy
16:42:21 **@miconda** mojtaba.esfandiari wanted to discuss its status
and his plans here
16:42:38 **@mojtaba.esfandiari** Yes, Sure
16:44:13 **@mojtaba.esfandiari** LREProxy is powerful and useful module
that is developed for Kamailio for relaying RTP session in high
performance
16:45:34 **@miconda** is it based on the existing pull request, or you
wrote it from scratch again?
16:46:02 **@oej** Please explain why you wrote yet another RTP module in
addition to the ones we have :-)
16:46:10 **@mojtaba.esfandiari** You could run LREProxy module in a
simple computer server. It could handle and relaying RTP between peers
more than other modules in Kamailio as well as connection tracking in
Linux
16:47:58 **@oej** Maybe I'm stupid, but don't we already have
integration with iptables in kernel in some modules?
16:48:45 **@miconda** oej rtpengine app does that
16:48:59 **@mojtaba.esfandiari** The concept of developing this module
is because of in SBC node or edge-node in network we have huge number of
incoming real-time packet
16:49:14 **@oej** @moj
16:49:23 **@miconda** there was long time ago another module in kamailio
using kernel, but removed, required a non-maintained patch to kernel
16:49:41 **@mojtaba.esfandiari** And it could consume more resources in
server.
16:49:55 **@oej** So the existing modules/apps failed for you?
16:50:20 **@mojtaba.esfandiari** With using LREProxy, you could handle
more RTP serssion relaying with no more consuming resources
16:50:55 **@mojtaba.esfandiari** RTPEnging app dose the same work but in
local-hooking network stack
16:51:21 **@mojtaba.esfandiari** LREProxy do this in prerouting-hooking
in netfilter
16:51:59 **@mojtaba.esfandiari** oej: absolutely yes
16:52:29 **@mojtaba.esfandiari** For more information about
this:https:*www.slideshare.net/mespio/lreproxy-module-for-kamailio-presenation
16:52:51 **@henning** i think the focus of rtpengine is more to provide
a wide range of RTP handling functionality, and the focus of lreproxy
more on proxy performance and throughput, correct?
16:52:52 **@mojtaba.esfandiari** This module also accepted in ICCKE2020
conferences, too
16:53:27 **@mojtaba.esfandiari** I think during next week this module
could be published in Kamailio project
16:53:43 **@miconda** mojtaba.esfandiari so we wait for you pull request
and then see how people find it good to use
16:55:02 **@mojtaba.esfandiari** Henning Westerholt: Yes, For edge nodes
that encountered with huge number of packets per second
16:55:37 **@mojtaba.esfandiari** miconda: Sure, During next week
16:56:21 **@oej** Why the name "LRE"? Seems confusing.
16:56:33 **@mojtaba.esfandiari** Already, the LREProxy engine have
developed with Python, it will publish, too.
16:58:03 **@jchavanton** \> \<@oej:matrix.kamailio.dev> Why the name
"LRE"? Seems confusing.
16:58:06 **@miconda** ok, then we wait for next week and can discuss on
GH PR if is more to say
16:58:16 **@mojtaba.esfandiari** oej: The LRE means Light-RTP-Engine,
becuase the logic of the module uses off-loading Cpu techniques.
16:58:45 **@miconda** since Julien Chavanton is active and he did a lot
of code lately
16:58:59 **@jchavanton** \> \<@mojtaba.esfandiari:matrix.org> oej: The
LRE means Light-RTP-Engine, becuase the logic of the module uses
off-loading Cpu techniques.
16:59:01 **@miconda** anything else new coming from you soon, Julien?
16:59:11 **@oej** "RTP-engine" is a product name, so I would consider
avoiding that
16:59:12 **@jchavanton** I saw Salman Ali @asalman18 was present, he
helped with the review of dispatcher algorithm 13.
16:59:42 **@henning** oej: we can discuss on the name as well on the
patch/pull request then
17:00:16 **@mojtaba.esfandiari** Sure, No problem. It is just name and
could be changed :)
17:00:35 **@miconda** Julien Chavanton isn't algo 13 already merged?
17:01:49 **@mojtaba.esfandiari** Any question?
17:02:52 **@mojtaba.esfandiari** maryambaghdadi: Mariam help me in
developing Kernel-Space section in LREProxy.
17:03:16 **@jchavanton** \> \<@mojtaba.esfandiari:matrix.org> Any
question?
17:03:52 **@mojtaba.esfandiari** Mariam do you want to say somethings
about our work in lreproxy?
17:04:45 **@jchavanton** \> \<@miconda:matrix.kamailio.dev> Julien
Chavanton isn't algo 13 already merged?
17:05:02 **@miconda** so we can move to next topic
17:05:31 **@miconda** anyone else that wants to share what they plan to
add till 5.5 is out?
17:06:12 **@jchavanton** There may be an improvement to RTPengine
module, I am waiting for a review on RTPengine before I submit the
module part
17:06:13 **@miconda** from my side: maybe some additions related to
JWT
17:06:45 **@miconda** and want to look at the RFC related to push
notifications, although I hoped Federico Cabiddu is going to be faster
than me ;-)
17:06:56 **@oej** On my wishlist: Support for the new SHA\* auth in
combination with MD5 according to the RFC
17:07:05 **@oej** But that's a feature request
17:07:19 **@miconda** Julien Chavanton ok
17:07:19 **@oej** if I get time I will make ds_list_exists support
pvars
17:07:47 **@miconda** isn't ds_list_exists() supporting vars?
17:08:46 **@henning** i have some changes that i like to merge: one
addition to the crypto module, another operating mode to support
interoperability with other implementation for crypt/decrypt, and some
additions to topology hiding for more flexibility in contact header
handling
17:09:12 **@miconda** code suggests ds_list_exists() does support var as
parameter, like ds_list_exists("$var(id)")
17:11:44 **@miconda** ok, if nothing to be added here, we can go to next
topic
17:12:00 **@oej** \> \<@miconda:matrix.kamailio.dev> code suggests
ds_list_exists() does support var as parameter, like
ds_list_exists("$var(id)")
17:12:20 **@miconda** I assume everyone is ok with the loose plan of 2nd
part/late spring 2021 for target date of 5.5 release
17:13:58 **@henning** fine with me
17:14:23 **@fred** works for me
17:14:34 **@miconda** ok
17:14:44 **@miconda** so then the wiki/documentation
17:15:12 **@henning** for development docs i think Markus Böhnke did
some conversion scripts some months ago
17:15:35 **@miconda** Julien Chavanton - you mentioned something above
17:15:44 **@miconda** can you elaborate more ...
17:18:06 **@jchavanton** I would like to write an article on how-to use
algorithm 13 it may not be that intuitive, I do not want to put to much
details about one algorithm in the html doc, while trying to explain it
in the mailing list it was clear that a wiki page would result in better
content.
17:18:37 **@oej** We can publish something on the home page to start
page
17:18:45 **@oej** s/start/web page/
17:19:17 **@oej** sorry multitasking
17:19:33 **@oej** An article like that could be published to introduce
the algo
17:19:58 **@fred** Yeah... would be good as a post
17:20:24 **@miconda** Julien Chavanton - there is a repo on github for
docs, maybe you can add it there
17:20:50 **@miconda** https:*github.com/kamailio/kamailio-docs
17:21:02 **@miconda** \* Julien Chavanton - there is a repo on github
for docs, maybe you can add it there
17:21:06 **@jchavanton** \> \<@miconda:matrix.kamailio.dev> Julien
Chavanton - there is a repo on github for docs, maybe you can add it
there
17:22:17 **@miconda** yes, we will do also a news about, but I thought
you want to have something to improve and maintain over the time
17:23:10 **@miconda** Henning Westerholt - if you have reference to what
Markus did, try to paste here a link to work from there
17:24:15 **@henning** ok, i will need to dig out the message
17:24:15 **@miconda** but the main question is: shall we migrate
dokuwiki to markdown (e.g., mkdocks, ...) and use github repo to accept
content with PRs?
17:24:17 **@henning** but will do
17:24:29 **@miconda** \* but the main question is: shall we migrate
dokuwiki to markdown (e.g., mkdocks, ...) and use github repo to accept
content with PRs?
17:26:06 **@miconda** silence is an answer, too :-)
17:26:22 **@miconda** \* silence is an answer, too :-)
17:26:42 **@fred** I like the idea of markdown
17:27:29 **@federico** I like the idea of managing the doc too through
PRs
17:28:21 **@miconda** ok, so let's try to do it
17:28:51 **@miconda** we can still have it shown on kamailio.org, just
stored on github
17:29:10 **@miconda** for the benefit of PRs
17:29:25 **@miconda** so people do not need to make an account on our
dokuwiki portal
17:29:59 **@miconda** I looked at the option of using git backend for
dokuwiki, but didn't seem that easy at that moment and then also the
format is different than the usual markdown
17:30:19 **@miconda** so if we do it, then better switch both
17:30:35 **@miconda** then people that contribute can use the markdown
format
17:31:27 **@miconda** ohhh ... a really good session so far, almost
2h30min ...
17:32:00 **@miconda** let's try to get slowly to the end ...
17:32:19 **@fred** =)
17:32:32 **@miconda** last main topic ... community: collaboration,
announcements
17:32:48 **@miconda** anything that someone wants to work on and would
like others to join?
17:33:16 **@miconda** anything that you want to announce (in what cool
cases have you used kamailio lately ;-) )?
17:33:27 **@miconda** or new products, tools, ... etc.
17:33:39 **@jsmith** You already mentioned secsipid, but I'll continue
to test and make suggestions/PRs on that
17:34:13 **@miconda** Jared Smith - really appreciating that,
STIR/SHAKEN is not much in Europe
17:34:27 **@miconda** so not easy to test in "production-like"
interconnects
17:34:54 **@fred** Recently switched APIBAN to redis backend for some
parts... and I was thinking of stupid uses, and thought maybe htable
could be used (with http front end). It couldn't, but just for fun, was
able to run over 1000cps on a pi
17:35:22 **@fred** so htable would store json, and return it via xhttp
17:35:29 **@fred** \* so htable would store json, and return it via
xhttp
17:35:34 **@jsmith** Fred Posner: Have you checked out the KeyDB fork of
Redis? Much higher performance, and multi-master :-)
17:35:59 **@fred** No, only because it hasn't reached any concern of
that level yet
17:36:06 **@miconda** not sure if Torrey Searle is online now, but he
added some mocking stuff for KEMI Python, so if anyone uses that, check
it:
https:*github.com/kamailio/kamailio/tree/master/misc/tools/kemi/python_mock
17:36:47 **@miconda** \* not sure if Torrey Searle is online now, but he
added some mocking stuff for KEMI Python, so if anyone uses that, check
it:
https:*github.com/kamailio/kamailio/tree/master/misc/tools/kemi/python_mock
17:37:35 **@miconda** then, for KEMI Lua, I added some tools that can
help detecting errors in the Lua script:
https:*github.com/kamailio/kamailio/tree/master/misc/tools/kemi/lua
17:40:14 **@miconda** and again from me - the URL expander extension for
browser to jump quickly to kamailio web resources - already announced to
mailing list, but for the records:
https:*github.com/miconda/KSR-URL-Expander
17:43:46 **@miconda** last call if someone still wants to add something
here
17:44:09 **@miconda** if not, we can consider this meeting finished!
17:44:35 **@miconda** thanks everyone for participating!
17:44:48 **@miconda** now free discussions ...
